Never make troubles of trifles.
Every ass thinks himself worthy to stand with the king's horses.
Every one has a penny to spend at a new ale-house.
A jack of all trades is master of none.
You cannot know wine by the barrel.
Every light is not the sun.
Wedding and ill-wintering tame both man and beast.
Hell is paved with good intentions.
Whatever will be, will be.
Time cures sorrow.
Fancy goes a long way.
A friend at court is better than a penny in the purse.
When children stand quiet they have done some harm.
High winds blow on high hills.
Money is the root of all evil.
Two wrongs don't make a right.
One man's junk is another man's treasure.
Do well, and have well.
To err is human, to forgive, divine.
A cold May and a wind.
"Welcome death," quoth the rat, when the trap fell down.
Speech is the picture of the mind.
To a good spender God is the treasurer.
Who would keep a cow when he may have a bottle of milk for a penny.
He that will not go over the stile must be thrust through the gate.
A little pot is soon hot.
A pennyworth of ease is worth a penny.
He that will thrive must rise at five.
When wine sinks, words swim.
Nothing like leather.
Age before honesty.
You can't win them all.
To-morrow comes never.
To a crazy ship all winds are contrary.
Children are poor men's riches.
The worst wheel of a cart creaks most.
Birchen twigs break no ribs.
Gold alone makes not prosperity.
Give it plenty of elbow grease.
It takes one to know one.
There's never enough where nothing's left.
Feed sparingly, and defy the physician.
He who is not handsome at twenty, nor strong at thirty, nor wise at forty, nor rich at fifty, will never be handsome, strong, rich, or wise.
This world is nothing except it tend to the next.
Make not thy friend too cheap to thee, nor thyself to thy friend.
Hold not with the hounds and run with the hare.
A mouse, in time, may bite in two a cable.
Self do, self have.
Wine is a turncoat, first a friend, then an enemy.
That which is easily done is soon believed.
You win some, you lose some.
As sound as a nut.
An old sack wanteth much patching.
The mob has many heads, but no brains.
He who spends more than he should, Shall not have to spend when he would.
You'll come home in another tune.
Put a snake in your bosom, and when it is warm it will sting you.
A man of words and not of deeds, Is like a garden full of weeds.
Rain from east, Two days at least.
When knaves fall out, true men come by their goods.
A generous confession disarms slander.
They look one way and row another.
When wine is in, wit is out.
A plant often removed cannot thrive.
The hindermost dog may catch the hare.
He that longs most lacks most.
He that lives not well one year sorrows for it seven.
They laugh the loudest who have least to lose.
Are rushes and reeds.
Of all the crafts honesty is the master-craft.
It is an ill bird that defiles its own nest.
If wishes were thrushes, beggars would eat birds.
Calm weather in June sets corn in tune.
God never measures men by inches.
The fish will bite least.
Do all the good you talk of; but talk not of all the good you do.
Those are wise who learn caution from their own experience; but those are wiser who learn it from the experience of others.
As the twig is bent the tree's inclined.
The squeaky wheel gets the grease.
Wounds may heal, but not those made by ill words.
Account not that work slaver.
Bachelors, before you marry, Have a house wherein to tarry.
Old men are twice children.
The wife is the key of the house.
Many a one for land, Takes a fool by the hand.
A little knowledge is a dangerous thing.
Care's no cure.
Whoso lacketh a stock, his gain's not worth a chip.
No longer pipe, no longer dance.
What soberness conceals, drunkenness reveals.
He would not lend his knife to the devil to stab himself.
A small pack suits a small pedlar.
The best laid plans of mice and men (often go astray).
Children should hear, see, and say nothing.
A sceptre is one thing, a ladle another.
Harm watch, harm catch.
Hunger is the finest sauce.
Many a good cow hath had a bad calf.
Murder will out.
September blow soft, Till the fruit's in the loft.
A small leak will sink a great ship.
Many words will not fill a bushel.
Sluts are good enough to make slovens' pottage.
That which is bred in the bone will never be out of the flesh.
You get what you pay for.
The nearer the church the farther from God.
To say well, it is well, but to do well is better.
Counsel is never out of date.
Feather by feather the goose is plucked.
God healeth, and the physician hath the thanks.
Wit is the lightning of the mind.
April and May are the keys of the year.
I can see as far into a millstone as the picker.
Speak softly and carry a big stick.
As good to be out of the world as out of the fashion.
"He that wolde not when he might, He shall not when he wold-a..
Where are the crumbs there are the chickens.
Talking pays no toll.
The ignorant think all things wrong which they cannot understand.
An ounce of knowledge may be worth a pound of comfort.
Never sigh but send.
There is nothing certain in this life but death and taxes.
Much would have more, and lost all.
Woe follows wickedness.
A dog is a man's best friend.
Who hath aching teeth, hath ill tenants.
Weight and measure take away strife.
The evil wound is cured, but not the evil name.
Charity begins at home.
Great minds think alike.
Discretion is the better part of valor.
Where there is smoke there is fire.
'Tis good fish if it were but caught.
Every tide has its ebb.
A bird can roost upon but one branch.
Next to love, quietness.
Barley straw's good fodder when the cow gives water.
A penny saved is a penny earned.
First creep and then go.
Fair faces need no paint.
Their folly pleads the privilege of wealth.
A bald head is soon shaven.
Do as you are bidden and you'll never be to blame.
Set a thief to take a thief.
When thy neighbour's house is on fire, be careful of thine own.
He had enough to keep the wolf from the door.
Spare the rod, spoil the child.
Cut and come again.
Ask but enough, and you may lower as you list.
Who depends upon another man's table often dines late.
Laws, like spiders' webs, are wrought, Large flies break through, the small are caught.
Sit in your place, and none can make you rise.
To take the wrong sow by the ear.
Gems must not be valued by what they are set in.
Wisdom rides upon the ruins of folly.
Many speak much that cannot speak well.
He who would have a hare for breakfast must hunt over night.
When poverty comes in at the door, friendship leaps out of the window.
Spoil not the ship for a penn'orth of tar.
One good turn deserves another.
Do as you would be done by.
Short reckonings are soon cleared.
That's where the laugh comes in.
Ships fear fire more than water.
Rules were meant to be broken.
It's useless saving at the spigot and spending at the bung-hole.
Nothing dries up sooner than tears.
Long absent, soon forgotten.
Lovers live on love, as larks on leeks.
I had not cut my wise teeth.
Better be the head of an ass than the tail of a horse.
Make much of one, good men are scarce.
Some are wise, and some are otherwise.
He that is born to be hanged shall never be drowned.
Great cry and little wool.
Put your money where your mouth is.
Adversity flattereth no man.
He stands in his own light.
'Tis the early bird catches the worm.
When a musician hath forgot his note, he makes as though a crumb stuck in his throat.
Absence makes the heart grow fonder.
A feast is not made of mushrooms only.
Birds of a feather flock together.
Look at the same in Jun.
A swarm of bees in May is worth a load of hay, But a swarm of bees in July is not worth a fly.
Better it is to meet a bear bereaved of her whelps, than a fool in his folly.
No pains, no profit.
Little minds, like weak liquors, are soon soured.
Man reigns and woman rules.
When the tree falls every man runs with his hatchet.
Good and quickly seldom meet.
Simon Noland, clown, is a better style and title tha.
He wants to have a finger in every pie.
Oysters are not good in the month that hath not an R in it.
There's no place like home.
Desperate cuts must have desperate cures.
The exception that proves the rule.
He who hath no ill fortune, is dazed with good.
He that runs in the night stumbles.
Those who live in glass houses should not throw stones.
If it were not for hope, the heart would break.
Everything would live.
Agree, for law is costly.
Lowly sit and be richly warm.
A bad day never hath a good night.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
It's better to be lucky than wise.
No rest for the weary.
For want of a nail the shoe is lost; for want of a shoe the horse is lost; for want of a horse the rider is lost.
Rolling in cash he can't use, like a cat in a corn-bin.
The fish will bite best.
Love and lordship never like friendship.
Never carry two faces under one hat.
Every path hath a puddle.
Where God hath His church the devil will have his chapel.
England is the Paradise of women.
He's Tom Tell-troth.
Haste trips up its own heels.
As patient as Job.
Eating and drinking takes away one's appetite.
He that will steal an egg will steal an ox.
The greater truth, the greater libel.
Old young, old long.
He that tells his wife news is but newly married.
When the sloe-tree is as white as a sheet, Sow your barley, whether it be dry or wet.
Doing nothing is doing ill.
Better a fortune in her than on her.
If you want a thing done right, do it yourself.
Christmas comes but once a year.
Better be idle than ill employed.
No man knows better what good is than he that has an endured evil.
That's but an empty purse that's full of other men's money.
Every man is either a fool or a physician after thirty years of age.
They who don't intend to pay, Will promise payment any day.
Better untaught than ill-taught.
Sticks and stones may break my bones, but words (sometimes 'names') will never hurt me. .
Every man is the architect of his fortune.
He who is born to be hanged will never be drowned.
Hasty resolutions seldom speed well.
A tradesman who gets not loseth.
One hour's sleep before midnight is worth two hours after.
He is not wise that is not wise for himself.
Where there's a will there's a way.
An empty purse fills the face with wrinkles.
It's a bad cause that none dare speak in.
Great spenders are bad lenders.
A fool may give a wise man counsel.
Fiddler's fare; meat, drink, and money.
A word is enough to the wise.
Self love's a mote in every man's eye.
Cloudy mornings turn to clear evenings.
He that goeth out with often loss, At last comes home by Weeping Cross.
No sweat, no sweet.
A man may lose his goods for want of demanding them.
When things get to the worst, they'll mend.
Keep a thing seven years, and you will find a use for it.
Pride goes before, and shame follows after.
Old age is honourable.
Where it is weakest there the thread breaketh.
You need not go forth [_to fish_].
Many a true word is spoken in jest.
Measure twice, cut once.
March grass never did good.
It is more painful to do nothing than something.
Good words without deed.
As good as gold.
Grief pent up will burst the heart.
He robs Peter to pay Paul.
Thinkers govern toilers.
Almost was never hanged.
Change of fortune is the lot of life.
Misery loves company.
He is most loved that hath most bags.
If the ash before the oak comes out, There has been, or there will be drought.
Keep some till more come.
He that would learn to pray let him go to sea.
One swallow does not make a summer.
One never loseth by doing good turns.
Try your friend before you trust him.
An old dog barks not in vain.
Never trouble trouble till trouble troubles you.
Poverty parteth good fellowship.
Great marks are soonest hit.
It's not how long, but how well, we live.
At a great bargain make a great pause.
A good dog deserves a good bone.
It's never too late to change.
He that hath no money needeth no purse.
Comparisons are odious.
You can lead a horse to water, but you can't make him drink.
As good twenty as nineteen.
Is still to be doing from morning to night.
Soft words hurt not the mouth.
Don't throw the baby out with the bathwater.
If wishes would bide, beggars would ride.
A bribe will enter without knocking.
Willows are weak, yet they bend other wood.
He that despiseth small things shall fall by little and little.
Out of the frying-pan into the fire.
Vows made in storms are forgotten in calms.
A mere scholar a mere ass.
A leopard cannot change its spots.
Of sufferance comes ease.
Honesty is the best policy; but he who acts on this principle is not an honest man.
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
Company in distress, Makes trouble less.
February makes a bridge, and March breaks it.
Money is more easily made than made use of.
The wife that expects to have a good nam.
A woman's mind and winter wind often change.
Love and a cough cannot be hid.
The cure is worse than the disease.
Soft words butter no parsnips.
Little boats must keep the shore.
Experience is the best teacher.
When the wind's in the south, It blows the bait into the fishes' mouth.
Don't make a mountain out of a mole-hill.
Win first, lose last.
When God wills, all winds bring rain.
Once well done is twice done.
Little strokes fell great oaks.
Blessed be St. Stephen.
If things were to be done twice, all would be wise.
Shall be rich when he is buried.
If you would fruit have, You must bring the leaf to the grave.
The full stomach loatheth the honeycomb, but to the hungry every bitter thing is sweet.
Better go to bed supperless than to rise in debt.
Love lives in cottages as well as in courts.
Older and wiser.
Many without punishment, none without sin.
One story is good until another's told.
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.
None ever yet got fat on windfalls.
The customer is always right.
The loquacity of fools is a warning to the wise.
Wilful waste makes woeful want.
Good watch prevents misfortune.
Why, butter would not melt in his mouth.
Much is expected where much is given.
Don't cut off your nose to spite your face.
As you make your bed so you must lie on it.
Angry men seldom want woe.
Wound more than swords.
What the eye does not see the heart does not grieve for.
Men dream in courtship but in wedlock wake.
Though the sun shines, leave not your cloak at home.
A growing youth hath a wolf in his stomach.
When the cat's away the mice will play.
Ever drunk, ever dry.
Crooked logs make straight fires.
He that makes a good war makes a good peace.
No cross, no crown.
Don't cry over spilt milk.
Fair words butter no parsnips.
Modesty is the handmaid of virtue.
Who sows in May gets little that way.
Poverty breeds strife.
He that waits for a dead man's shoes may go long enough barefoot.
Fancy may bolt bran and think it flour.
November take flail, Let ships no more sail.
Scorning is catching.
Hunger makes short devotion.
Cowards are always cruel.
Will without reason is blind.
Old saws speak the truth.
If wishes were horses, beggars would ride.
Every man to his trade.
The finest shoe often hurts the foot.
He that buys land buys many stones, He that buys flesh buys many bones, He that buys eggs buys many shells, He that buys ale buys nothing else.
Better go about than fall into the ditch.
Touch a galled horse, and he will wince.
So many mists in March you see, So many frosts in May will be.
The mouse that hath but one hole is easily taken.
With stomach, wife, and conscience keep on good terms.
August dry and warm, Harvest doth no harm.
Pride comes before a fall.
After dinner sit awhile, after supper walk a mile.
Some rain, some rest.
Two in distress make sorrows less.
When the well is dug it is easy enough to pump.
Love me little, love me long.
He had need rise betimes that would please everybody.
One tongue is enough for a woman.
There's no joy without alloy.
Let sleeping dogs lie.
God reacheth us good things with our own hands.
A good horse often wants a good spur.
Cold of complexion, good of condition.
Where the will is ready, the feet are light.
When ill luck falls asleep, let nobody wake her.
There's no fool like an old fool.
Man does not live by bread alone.
Most take all.
Hungry flies bite sore.
Foxes, when they cannot reach the grapes, say they are not ripe.
Enough is as good as a feast.
Don't lock the stable door after the horse is gone.
That is true which all men say.
Love me, love my dog.
Fall not out with a friend for a trifle.
An old doctor, a young lawyer.
Such a beginning, such an end.
Love is the touchstone of virtue.
One can never have too much of a good thing.
March wind and May sun, Make clothes white and maids dun.
Cheese it is a peevish elf, It digests all things but itself.
One may see day at a little hole.
The lion's not half so fierce as he's painted.
A thousand pounds and a pottle of hay is all one thing at doomsday.
There is a tide in the affairs of man which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune.
A wise man changes his mind; a fool never.
In the end things will mend.
A good beginning makes a good ending.
A broken leg is not healed by a silk stocking.
What! keep a dog and bark myself.
Don't cry out before you're hurt.
The horse thinks one thing, and he that rides him another.
As clear as mud.
Though the cat winks awhile, yet sure she is not blind.
He that runs fastest gets the prize.
First things first.
In the forehead and the eye, The picture of the mind doth lie.
He that hath a good harvest may be content with some thistles.
In wiving and thriving men should take counsel of all the world.
Lips however rosy must be fed.
Physician heal thyself.
The offender never pardons.
Happy is the bride the sun shines on, And the corpse the rain rains on.
Many kiss the child for the nurse's sake.
As you brew, so shall you bake.
Between a woman's yes and no, There is not room for a pin to go.
Keeping from falling is better than helping up.
You can't take it with you.
A fair face may hide a foul heart.
If the shoe fits, wear it.
A Saturday's moo.
Once bitten, twice shy.
Every one basteth the fat hog, while the lean one burneth.
Never fish in troubled waters.
Who hath spice enough may season his meat as he pleaseth.
Reconcile yourself to present trials, the future may bring worse.
To forget a wrong is the best revenge.
Old fools are the worst of fools.
Stretch not your fee.
All are not friends that speak us fair.
Temper the tongue.
He that reckons without his host must reckon again.
A story never loses by re-telling.
With what measure ye mete it shall be measured to you again.
Over haste makes certain waste.
Give a dog a bone in his mouth, and you may kick him and he can't bite.
The best fish are near the bottom.
There's as good fish in the sea as were ever caught.
Time tries all.
'Tis the second blow that makes a fray.
Where we least think, there goeth the hare away.
God help the rich, the poor can beg.
A cat may look at a king.
Cruelty is a tyrant always attended by fear.
Maidens must be seen and not heard.
Don't stop the plough to catch a mouse.
Youth will have its swing.
Mischiefs come by the pound and go away by the ounce.
People are sometimes better contented full than fasting.
As the fool thinks, so the bell chinks.
Possession is nine-tenths of the law.
The early bird catches the worm.
Too many cooks spoil the broth.
Knowledge, like physic, is more plague than profit, if it arrives too late.
Strike while the iron is hot.
Humphrey Hadland, gent.
Wine is the master's, but the goodness is the drawer's.
Hunger will break through stone walls.
Easy does it.
He that hath nothing is not contented.
No one knows the weight of another's burden.
Rome was not built in a day.
Yorkshire fashion--every man pay his share.
Pull down your hat on the wind side.
The young suckers drain the old tree.
The tongue talks at the head's cost.
Love thy neighbour, but pull not down thy hedge.
Store is no sore.
A whet is no let [hindrance].
A cold May, Plenty of corn and hay.
Don't judge a book by its cover.
A bit in the morning is better than nothing all day.
No man loves his fetters, though of gold.
No striving against the stream.
Knavery may serve for a turn, but honesty is best in the long run.
You needn't lock the stable door when the steed is stolen.
Like will to like.
When the cat winketh, little wots the mouse what the cat thinketh.
They talk of Christmas so long that it comes.
Let your purse be your master.
According to the old proverb.
No one is a fool always; every one sometimes.
The more the merrier; the fewer the better cheer.
If you can't lick 'em, join 'em.
We can't all be top sawyers.
Like a barber's chair, fit for every buttock.
Good things come in small packages.
Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.
Two wrongs will not make a right.
Children are certain cares, but very uncertain comforts.
Time and tide tarry for no man.
Appearances can be deceiving.
Blood is thicker than water.
Cold hands, warm heart.
Practice makes perfect.
Lightning never strikes twice in the same place.
Be not weary of well-doing.
Fools build houses, and wise men buy them.
There it will stick to the end of May.
Brag's a good dog, but that he hath lost his tail.
Many kinsfolk, few friends.
"Sour grapes," as the fox said when he could not reach them.
Life is half spent before we know what it is.
He who stays in the valley will never get over the hill.
What God will, no frost can kill.
Wool sellers know wool buyers.
When the cuckoo comes to the bare thorn, Sell your cow and buy your corn, But when she comes to a full bit, Sell your corn, and buy your sheep.
Care will kill a cat.
Spend not where you may save; spare not where you must spend.
He that hath a trade hath an estate.
Give neither advice nor salt until you are asked for it.
Quick at meat, quick at work.
A good wife's a prize.
Neighbour-quart is good quart.
Everything hath an end, and a pudding hath two.
The clock goes as it pleases the clerk.
Here today, gone tomorro.
Hearts may agree though heads differ.
After cheese comes nothing.
The receiver is as bad as the thief.
Where bad's the best, naught must be the choice.
Make not a toil of your pleasure.
He dances well to whom fortune pipes.
Share and share alike.
There's a sucker born every minute.
Better an empty house than a bad tenant.
Never trust yourself out of your depth till you can swim.
Perseverance kills the game.
Poverty parts friends.
Many go for wool and come back shorn.
The morning sun never lasts a day.
The more women look in their glasses, the less they look to their houses.
A merry companion on the road is as good as a nag.
One rotten apple spoils the whole barrel.
Two heads are better than one.
A cold April a barn will fill.
A green winter makes a fat churchyard.
As the old cock crows so crows the young.
Make the vine poor, and it will make you rich.
Take time by the forelock.
Burn not your candle at both ends at once.
Catch that catch may.
Opportunity lingers sometimes.
Talk of the devil and he'll be sure to appear.
Frugality makes an easy chair for old age.
There's ne'er a why, but there's a wherefore.
While the grass grows the steed starves.
The merry month of May.
He knows not a hawk from a hand-saw.
Roses, mind you, have thorns.
Poverty makes a man acquainted with strange bed-fellows.
Jests, like sweetmeats, are often sour sauce.
Up a creek without a paddle.
Tell that tale to a deaf man.
You cannot eat your cake and have it.
Experience is a dear school, but it is the only one we are apt to learn in.
Tell me what company you keep, and I will tell you who you are.
What your glass tells you will not be told by counsel.
Too far east is west.
Faint praise is disparagement.
The beggar is never out of his way.
No sunshine but hath some shadow.
A drunken night makes a cloudy morning.
Kindness will always conquer.
So many frosts in March, so many in May.
Discreet women have neither eyes nor ears.
Few people are out of the reach of slander.
The abundance of money ruins youth.
Children and fools speak the truth.
Pay as you go.
A man can do more than he can.
High places have their precipices.
One picture is worth a thousand words.
March many weathers.
Soldiers in peace are like chimneys in summer.
You may draw him which way you will, with a twine thread.
War, hunting, and law, are as full of trouble as pleasure.
He must stoop that hath a low door.
Wit bought is twice taught.
When the head aches, all the body is the worse.
Empty vessels make the greatest sound.
He deserves not the sweet that will not taste the sour.
So we have the chink, we'll bear the stink.
As blind as a bat.
Blushing is virtue's colour.
The bait goes in their mouth.
Losers are always in the wrong.
He was born with a silver spoon in his mouth.
Death keeps no calendar.
A man is not so soon healed as hurt.
Trust in God, and keep your powder dry.
The longest liver dies at last.
He that will not be counselled cannot be helped.
He covers me with his wings, and bites me with his bill.
Increaseth your store.
Through thick and thin.
Better be alone than in bad company.
Salmon and sermon have their season in Lent.
I'm too old a bird to be caught by chaff.
Old foxes need no tutors.
He that revealeth his secret maketh himself a slave.
If youth knew what age will crave, It sure would strive to get and save.
Raise no more spirits than you can conjure down.
Keep from the anger of a great man.
The world was never so dull but if one won't another will.
The greatest burdens are not the gainfullest.
Better late than never.
Good words cool more than cold water.
That penny is well spent that saves a groat.
Love is blind.
Diligence is a good patrimony.
Jack of all trades, and master of none.
Cut your coat according to your cloth.
He measures your corn by his bushel.
Bear and forbear.
Be a good husband, and you will get a penny to spend, a penny to lend, and a penny for a friend.
Drunken folk often speak truth.
A place for everything and everything in its place.
Better three hours too soon than a minute too late.
If the mountain will not go to Mahomet, let Mahomet go to the mountain.
He that strikes with the sword shall be beaten with the scabbard.
Morning is the time for study.
Better wise than wealthy.
He loseth his thanks who promiseth and delayeth.
He that sends mouths sends meat.
Crafty evasions save not the truth.
A soft answer turneth away wrath.
Wise men care not for what they cannot have.
He that would the daughter win, Must with the mother first begin.
The balance distinguishes not between gold and lead.
A crow is never the whiter for washing herself often.
Walls have ears.
Truth is stranger than fiction.
Poverty is the mother of health.
He that is thrown would ever wrestle.
Look to the cow, and the sow, and the wheat mow, and all will be well enow.
Two things you won't fret o'er, If you're a wise man-.
Carefully spend, and God will send.
Little birds may peck a dead lion.
Riches are like muck, which stink in a heap, but spread abroad make the earth fruitful.
As great a pity to see a woman weep, as to see a goose go barefoot.
A rugged stone grows smooth from hand to hand.
Unminded, unmoaned.
What you see is what you get.
It is good to be merry at meat.
Valour that parleys is near yielding.
A Scotch mist will wet an Englishman through to the skin.
Proverbs are the texts of common life.
On Candlemas day you must have half your straw and half your hay.
There is no rule without an exception.
Never split timber against the grain.
All things are soon prepared in a well-ordered house.
Corn is cleansed with the wind, and the soul with chastening.
He lies like an epitaph.
Knaves and fools divide the world.
The lower millstone grinds as well as the upper.
An unhappy lad may make a good man.
An evening red and a morning grey, Is a sign of a fair day.
He who drinks when he is not dry, will be dry when he has no drink.
Pepper is black, yet it hath a good smack.
You cannot get blood out of a stone.
Every one can tame a shrew but he that hath her.
When the child is christened, you may have godfathers enough.
Pride will have a fall.
Unknown, unmissed.
Every one as they like best, as the good man said when he kissed his cow.
A contented mind is a continual feast.
Truth hath a good face, but bad clothes.
No flying without wings.
Well begun is half done.
More haste worse speed.
He that hath thriven may lie till seven.
Even a clown clings to his cloak when it rains.
Fire and water are good servants but bad masters.
A good maxim is never out of season.
Are a man's best wealth.
Exchange is no robbery.
Civil words cost nothing, and go a long way.
A hedge betwee.
Too much liberty spoils all.
Experience is the mistress of fools.
The knowledge of the disease is half the cure.
Saying and doing are two things.
Poor folk are glad of pottage.
Never too old to learn.
Don't run away with more than you can carry.
Where honour ceaseth, there knowledge decreaseth.
Pocket an injury.
A windy March and a rainy April make a beautiful May.
No man can flay a stone.
There would be no great ones if there were no little.
A child may have too much of his mother's blessing.
Sorrow is good for nothing but sin.
Prettiness dies quickly.
Begging is an ill trade on a fast-day.
The devil's children have the devil's luck.
He that riseth betimes hath something in his head.
The nurse's tongue is privileged to talk.
Whether you boil snow or pound it, you will have but water from it.
Evil gotten, evil spent.
He needs must go that the devil drives.
Make hay while the sun shines.
Bought wit is best.
A place for everything, and everything in its place.
Forbidden fruit is sweet.
When it rains, it pours.
Is relished by the wisest men.
All play and no work, Gives Tom a ragged shirt.
Spare when young and spend when old.
It is never too late to mend.
He that cannot abide a bad market deserves not a good one.
Slow fire makes sweet malt.
Thoughts are free.
The Devil Grew Well, the Devil a Monk Was He.
Painted pictures are dead speakers.
Pull gently on a weak rope.
Now or never.
You can't make ropes of sand.
The worth of a thing is best known by the want of it.
Love is no lack.
Promises are too much like pie-crusts, made to be broken.
He is poor indeed that cannot promise nothing.
He goes a-sorrowing, who goes a-borrowing.
Death is deaf and hears no denial.
Fear not the loss of the bell more than the loss of the steeple.
Where music is no harm can be.
Never quit certainty for hope.
Like carrying coals to Newcastle.
Rome wasn't built in a day.
When the cat's away, The mice will play.
A good name is better than riches.
A clear conscience is a sure card.
After clouds comes clear weather.
Rich men's spots are covered with money.
One pair of heels is often worth two pair of hands.
Better ride on an ass that carries me than a horse that throws me.
Vice is nourished by being concealed.
Who spits against the wind spits in his own face.
A hot May makes a fat churchyard.
What's sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.
Trade knows neither friends nor kindred.
Fancy passes beauty.
A single fact is worth a ship-load of argument.
He may well be contented who needs neither borrow nor flatter.
Crosses are ladders that lead to heaven.
When the wind's in the eas.
He would split a hair.
A hungry horse makes a clean manger.
Everything is good in its season.
Far from court, far from care.
Child's pig, but father's bacon.
He that bites on every weed must needs light on poison.
One ill word asketh another.
Oil and water don't mix.
Gentle strokes make the sweetest harmony.
It's no use looking for musk in a dog's kennel.
Sell not the hare's skin before you have caught him.
Much coin much care.
Study to be worthy of your parents.
The tongue's not steel, yet it cuts.
The first blow is half the battle.
Wit is folly, unless a wise man hath the keeping of it.
Nip it in the bud.
Two of a trade seldom agree.
Water bewitched.
Sorrow will pay no debt.
Think of ease, but work on.
A woman's work is never done.
The wearer best knows where the shoe pinches.
Grasp all, lose all.
The foremost dog catches the hare.
If we do not hear reason she will one day make herself be heard.
He that will too soon be his own master, will have a fool for his scholar.
The pot calls the kettle black.
While there's life there's hope.
Truth lies in a well.
Who goes worse shod than the cobbler's wife.
Live not to eat, but eat to live.
Words spoken in an evening the wind carrieth away.
Silence is consent.
Better that the feet slip than the tongue.
Fortune favours the brave.
Borrowed garments never fit well.
To cast oil in the fire is not the way to quench it.
To look for a needle in a pottle of hay.
Never put off till tomorrow what you can do today..
He that will not stoop for a pin, shall never be worth a point.
An apple never falls far from the tree.
A famine in England begins at the horse-manger.
This rule in gardening never forget, To sow dry and set wet.
Gather thistles, expect prickles.
It is better to spare at the brim than the bottom.
Cast not pearls before swine.
You must ask your neighbour if you shall live in peace.
Good October, a good blast, To blow the hog acorn and mast.
He who marries for wealth sells his liberty.
Mocking is catching.
Wolves lose their teeth, but not their memory.
Half a loaf is better than none.
As long lives a merry heart as a sad.
A thin meadow is soon mowed.
A friend is not so soon gotten as lost.
He that sows nothing plants thistles.
"Care not," would have.
Calm weather in Jun.
All lay load on the willing horse.
Forewarned is forearmed.
He that's afraid of wounds must not come nigh a battle.
Idle minds are the devil's workshop.
Better wear a cloak for religion than religion for a cloak.
Bad news travels fast.
When one door shuts another opens.
It's good to be merry and wise.
It chanceth in an hour that comes not in seven years.
Where bees are there is honey.
Fields have eyes, and woods have ears.
Choose your wife on Saturday, and not on a Sunday.
What one man despises, another craves.
Change of pasture makes fat calves.
Feed a cold, starve a fever.
Let them laugh that win.
He that would please all, and himself too, Undertakes what he cannot do.
The pen is mightier than the sword.
If wishes were horses then beggars would ride.
By doing nothing we learn to do ill.
God tempers the wind to the shorn sheep.
Keep me from still water; from that which is rough I can keep myself.
Well may he gape until he be dead.
He is a real friend who assists one in a pinch.
Scratch my back and I'll scratch yours.
Light gains make a heavy purse.
If the grass grow in Janiveer, It grows the worse for't all the year.
Sweet meat must have some sauce.
One man may better steal a horse than another look over the hedge.
After rain comes fair weather.
Bad workmen always complain of their tools.
Ill got, ill spent.
Idle folk have the least leisure.
The more noble the more humble.
Hungry men think the cook lazy.
Whom we love best to them we can say least. ve and a cough cannot be hid.
He who hesitates is lost.
A burnt child dreads the fire.
Follow the river and you'll get to the sea.
Where hearts are tru.
I'll keep no more cats than will catch mice.
Penny wise and pound foolish.
Beans should blow before May doth go.
In the husband wisdom, in the wife gentleness.
Itch and ease can no man please.
If a man once fall, all will tread on him.
Clouds that the sun builds up darken him.
Bend the twig while it is young.
You can't have your cake and eat it too.
When two ride together one must ride behind.
'Gainst the power of gold.
A good word is as soon said as an ill one.
Of idleness comes no goodness.
When good cheer is lacking our friends will be packing.
Temperance is the best physic.
Let not the fiddler play the fife, Nor fifer play the fiddle.
A pennyworth of mirth is worth a pound of sorrow.
He that buys a house ready wrought, Hath many a pin and nail for nought.
To forget wrong is the greatest revenge.
You can't make a horn of a pig's tail.
Evil is wrought by want of thought, As well as want of heart.
Wit ill applied is a dangerous weapon.
There are none so deaf as those who will not hear.
Going to hell in a handbasket.
Too much of one thing is good for nothing.
Neither praise nor dispraise thyself, thine actions serve the turn.
The empty leech sucks sore.
Beauty is no inheritance.
You may know by a penny how a shilling spends.
There is one good wife in the country, and every man thinks he hath her.
Slow and steady wins the race.
He that gropes in the dark finds that he would not.
The law is not the same at morning and night.
Fair and softly as lawyers go to heaven.
Like master like man.
Set trees poor, and they will grow rich; set them rich, and they will grow poor.
Beyond the sheet.
One sheep follows another.
When the wind's in the nort.
Beware of Greeks bearing gifts.
Being born in a stable does not make a man a horse.
To everything there is a season; and a time to every purpose under heaven.
A new broom sweeps clean.
A man cannot live by the air.
Let every tub stand on its own bottom.
If wilful will to water, wilful must be drowned.
'Tis the clerk makes the justice.
Frugality is an estate.
The master's eye does more work than his hands.
A good winter brings a good summer.
You may be a wise man though you cannot make a watch.
Every dog has his day.
In a thousand pounds of law there's not an ounce of love.
Foul hands befoul all they touch.
Forbearance is no acquittance.
Live and let live.
Adversity makes a man wise, not rich.
Necessity is the mother of invention.
The thing you can't help, And the thing that you can.
Every dog has its day.
Beggars must not be choosers.
Necessity knows no law.
I wept when I was born, and every day shows why.
A little house well fill'd, A little land well till'd, And a little wife well will'd.
Catch a bird by putting salt on its tail.
He that hath a head of wax must not walk in the sun.
Don't change horses in midstream.
There are many ways of killing a dog beside hanging him.
Utility is preferable to grandeur.
When the going gets tough, the tough get going.
He that shows his purse longs to be rid of it.
Hasty climbers have sudden falls.
Such as the tree is, such is the fruit.
Little pitchers have long ears.
Keep your tongue within your teeth.
Pay him in his own coin.
Giving to the poo.
Sets corn in tune.
To-day me, to-morrow thee.
Woe to the house where there is no chiding.
A man must sell his ware at the rate of the market.
What is a pound of butter amongst a kennel of hounds.
Two's company and three's none.
A man must plough with such oxen as he hath.
But if the hen moult before the cock, We shall have weather hard as a block.
Love asks faith, and faith asks firmness.
Need makes the old wife trot.
Familiarity breeds contempt.
When fortune smiles take the advantage.
If it's not one thing, it's another.
It's good to have company in trouble.
A fat sorrow is better than a lean one.
Three may keep counsel, if two be away.
Better are small fish than an empty dish.
Stars are not seen during sunshine.
Out of debt, out of danger.
After a famine in the stall, Comes a famine in the hall.
Strike while the iron is ho.
Jack-in-office is a great man.
Life is full of hazards, which experience neither bought nor taught will always enable us to foresee.
Better be a beggar than a fool.
Pardon all men, but never thyself.
Misfortunes seldom come alone.
Birds of prey do not sing.
When the wind's in the sout.
No man is his craft's master the first day.
Possession is nine points of the law, and they say there are but ten.
Bear with evil and expect good.
Little things please little minds.
Every man pays his price.
It's in the rain's mouth.
Forsake not the market for the toll.
One man may lead a horse to water, but fifty cannot make him drink.
Good measure is a merry mean.
Prettiness makes no pottage.
You may as well bid me lade the sea with a nutshell.
Over boots, over shoes.
No one knows where the shoe pinches so well as him who wears it.
Hedges have eyes, and walls have ears.
Never refuse a good offer.
Hunger makes hard bones sweet beans.
He who hath most peas may put most in the pot.
Be captain of your own ship.
A noble housekeeper needs no doors.
Time heals all wounds.
He that doth not lend doth lose his friend.
Be it better or be it worse, Be ruled by him who bears the purse.
A woman conceals what she knows not.
A good surgeon must have an eagle's eye, a lion's heart, and a lady's hand.
When old age is evil, youth can learn no good.
He tied a knot with his tongue he couldn't undo with his teeth.
Great boast, small roast.
A doctor and a clown know more than a doctor alone.
Cowardice is afraid to be known or seen.
You can't teach an old dog new tricks.
Let the best dog leap the stile first.
Who more busy than they that have least to do.
All's well that ends well.
What a man sows, that shall he also reap.
Don't count your chickens before they hatch.
The mill cannot grind with the water that is past.
Youth and white paper take any impression.
Sloth is the mother of poverty.
A man cannot both wive and thrive in a year.
Confine your tongue, lest it confine you.
Do not buy a pig in a poke.
Revenge is sweet.
Climb not too high, lest the fall be the greater.
Marriage halves our griefs, and doubles our joys.
Hope is a good breakfast, but a bad supper.
Put up or shut up.
Valour can do little without discretion.
He that sings on Friday shall weep on Sunday.
The cat is hungry when a crust contents her.
The thief's sorry because he is caught, not because he is the thief.
Everything is the worse for wearing.
One scabbed sheep infects the whole flock.
Prevention is better than cure.
Turnabout is fair play.
Trust not still water nor a silent man.
When sorrow is asleep, wake it not.
He that stumbles twice over the same stone, deserves to break his shins.
Every bird must hatch her own egg.
Nothing came out of the sack but what was in it.
Learning makes a man fit company for himself.
One may sooner fall than rise.
One woodcock does not make a winter.
Wishers and woulders are never good householders.
Give the devil his due.
He that is warm thinks all are so.
Use the means, and God will give the blessing.
Fools always come short of their reckoning.
Catch not at the shadow and lose the substance.
No joy without annoy.
Words are for women, actions for men.
To err is human; to forgive divine.
If you want a thing done, do it yourself.
He who gets four pounds and spends five has no need of a purse.
Every one's faults are not written on their foreheads.
Nothing comes out of the sack but what was in it.
My son is my son till he marries a wife, But my daughter's my daughter all the days of her life.
Man proposes, God disposes.
'Tis not lost that comes at last.
If at first you don't succeed, try, try again.
Fair feathers make fair fowls.
It is the last straw that breaks the camel's back.
Constant dropping wears the stone.
If youth knew what age would crave.
'Tis sooner said than done.
A good horse cannot be of a bad colour.
But soft upon soft makes none at all.
Upon St. David's day, Put oats and barley in the clay.
Hindsight is 20-20.
Fools make feasts, and wise men eat them.
"Say well," and "do well," end with one letter.
First deserve and then desire.
I have a bone in my arm.
Beggars on horseback will ride to the devil.
One beats the bush and another catcheth the bird.
Good servants make good masters.
There's many a true word spoken in jest.
Trash and trumpery is the highway to beggary.
Lazy folk take the most pains.
Be bail and pay for it.
As like as two peas.
Every man is a pilot in a calm sea.
It's ill healing an old sore.
Listeners never hear good of themselves.
Let not the cobbler go beyond his last.
A good recorder sets all in order.
Every man hath his faults.
Wedlock is a padlock.
A chain is only a strong as its weakest link.
Sweep before your own door.
Brag's a good dog, but Holdfast is a better.
It never goes well when the hen crows.
A drowning man will catch at a straw.
If you cannot bite, never show your teeth.
Hot love is soon cold.
He that hath shipped the devil must make the best of him.
It's not over 'till it's over.
No lock will hol.
Give him an inch, and he'll take an ell.
He must needs swim that's held up by the chin.
If you want a thing done, go; if not, send.
Tread on a worm and it will turn.
He who maketh others wretched is himself a wretch, whether prince or peasant.
Get thy spindle and thy distaff ready, and God will send thee flax.
Wranglers never want words.
Better be ill spoken of by one before all, than by all before one.
You should never touch your eye but with your elbow.
Let bygones be bygones.
Laws catch flies, but let hornets go free.
Great oaks from little acorns grow.
He that is of a merry heart hath a continual feast.
Where the wind is on Candlemas Da.
Meat is much, but manners is more.
There is no accounting for tastes.
Look before you leap.
A beggar can never be bankrupt.
Green Christmas, white Easter.
Courts have no almanacks.
Children suck the mother when they are young, and the father when they are old.
Self praise is no recommendation.
To him that wills ways are not wanting.
Short and sweet like a donkey's gallop.
Honesty is the best policy.
Monday for wealth, Tuesday for health, Wednesday the best day of all; Thursday for crosses, Friday for losses, Saturday no luck at all.
Make the best of a bad bargain.
A man may buy gold too dear.
People who live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones.
Bachelors grin, but married men laugh till their hearts ache.
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
Covetousness brings nothing home.
Cry you mercy, who killed my cat.
Man is the head, but woman turns it.
Help yourself and your friends will like you.
He's a good friend that speaks well of us behind our backs.
Don't bite off more than you can chew.
Much meat, much maladies.
'Tis a blot on his escutcheon.
One half of the world knows not how the other half lives.
Beware of "Had I wist..
An ill marriage is a spring of ill fortune.
Every man must eat a peck of ashes before he dies.
Seek till you find, and you'll lose no labour.
He that will steal a pin will steal a better thing.
Who thinks to live must live to think, Else mind and body lose their link.
They that cannot do as they will, must do as they can.
Little goods, little care.
Small things affect light minds.
Between two stools he comes to the ground.
A good wife and healt.
Venture a small fish to catch a great one.
One cannot be in two places at once.
Take time when time is, for time will away.
Use is second nature.
Long looked for comes at last.
They that are bound must obey.
Fast bind, fast find.
He that travels far knows much.
An ounce of mother-wit is worth a pound of clergy.
One must sometimes hold a candle to the devil.
Impudence is not courage.
Call me cousin; but cozen me not.
A life spent worthily should be measured by deeds--not years.
Every couple is not a pair.
There's no great banquet but some fare ill.
The thorn comes forth with his point forwards.
Like a treatise on light and colours by a blind man.
A Man's home is his castle.
All are not thieves that dogs bark at.
In a calm sea every man is a pilot.
Of nothing comes nothing.
Man doth what he can, and God what He will.
Make a virtue of necessity.
Grass grows not upon the highway.
Keep thy shop, and thy shop will keep thee.
Seldom seen, soon forgotten.
A good lawyer, an evil neighbour.
A cherry year, a merry year.
The crow thinks her own bird fairest.
Stolen kisses are sweet.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
Hasty men never lack woe.
Content is the true philosopher's stone.
Throw a sprat to catch a whale.
All for one and one for all.
Craft bringeth nothing home.
Happy go lucky.
They love dancing well that dance among thorns.
Any flat can talk of change of weather.
Lose nothing for asking.
Sufficient for the day is the evil thereof.
In the old of the moon, A cloudy morning bodes a fair afternoon.
Desert and reward seldom keep company.
That brings in penny savoury.
On the sea sail; on the land settle.
Cleanliness is next to godliness.
Caught between a rock and a hard place.
A scalded cat fears cold water.
'Tis folly to dig for lead with a silver shovel.
A cat has nine lives, yet care will kill a cat.
Fish are not to be caught by a birdcall.
Laughter is the best medicine.
Out of sight out of mind.
War is death's feast.
Every cross has its inscription.
A rotten apple injures its companions.
Better pay the butcher than the doctor.
Its better to give than to receive.
Cruelty is a devil's delight.
A full purse maketh the mouth to speak.
Is always at home as if she were lame, And the maid that is honest her chiefest deligh.
Every one puts his fault on the times.
Crosses are ladders for getting to heaven.
Idleness is the key of beggary.
One eye-witness is better than ten hearsays.
Brevity is the soul of wit.
Better be half hanged than ill wed.
There's no fast upon his even.
When April blows his horn, It's both good for hay and corn.
Talk of the devil and his imp appears.
A bad workman quarrels with his tools.
Foolish pity spoils a city.
He goes not out of his way that goes to a good inn.
If you would enjoy the fruit, pluck not the flower.
They are as mute as fishes.
Prosperity gains friends, adversity tries them.
When you ride a young colt see your saddle be well girt.
Happy is he who hath sown his wild oats betimes.
Let the weakest go to the wall.
Fault-finders should be fault-menders.
A dark man's a jewel in a fair woman's eye.
Gold goes in at any gate, except Heaven's.
When you are at Rome, do as Rome does.
If you wish a thing done, go; if not, send.
A penny in your pocket is a good companion.
Dry bread at home is better than roast beef abroad.
Marry above your match and you get a master.
If the wind be still.
Keeps friendship green.
Sure bind, sure find.
Damned if you do, damned if you don't.
A fool demands much, but he's a greater that gives it.
The brain that sows not corn, plants thistles.
If Christmas Day on a Monday be, A great winter that year you will see.
Early sow, early mow.
After Lammas corn ripens as much by night as by day.
Take away fuel, take away flame.
You can't make omelettes without breaking eggs.
The tide will fetch away what the ebb brings.
Wrinkled purses make wrinkled faces.
Covet nothing over much.
It's a bad sack will abide no clouting.
Idle folk take the most pains.
Waste not, want not.
He giveth one knock on the hoop, and another on the barrel.
Good counsel never comes too late.
The higher the standing the lower the fall.
If God had meant us to fly he'd have given us wings.
Curiosity killed the cat.
Manners often make fortunes.
A man may dig his grave with his teeth.
Pains are the wages of ill-pleasures.
It would both get and save.
Wise men learn by others' harms, fools by their own.
You cannot make a purse of a sow's ear.
Under water famine, under snow bread.
Procrastination is the thief of time.
The best horse needs breaking, and the best child needs teaching.
What is a workman without his tools.
All is fish that comes to his net.
Don't bite the hand that feeds you.
Better one eye than quite blind.
They that will not work in heat, must hunger in frost.
Rich country, bad road.
He that leaves certainty and sticks to chance, When fools pipe he may dance.
No cut like unkindness.
He that's down, down with him.
The devil can quote Scripture to suit his purpose.
A hog in armour is still but a hog.
Lose an hour in the morning, and you'll be all day hunting for it.
The chickens have come home to roost.
Marriages are made in heaven.
He would starve in a cook-shop.
If the first of July, it be rainy weather, 'Twill rain more or less for four weeks together.
Fair and softly go far in a day.
He that grasps at too much, holds fast nothing.
Don't wake a sleeping dog.
A great dowry is a bed full of troubles.
Peril proves who dearly loves.
Laws were made for rogues.
Good words fill not a sack.
He that runs fast will not run long.
Time is the rider that breaks youth.
Mettle is dangerous in a blind horse.
They that have no other meat, Bread and butter are glad to eat.
You may pay too dear for your whistle.
Good harvests make men prodigal, bad ones provident.
Thou art a bitter bird, said the raven to the starling.
It is no small conquest to overcome yourself.
As good sit still as rise up and fall.
It is easier to pull down than to build.
Pleasing ware is half sold.
A man may bear till his back breaks.
He that by the plough would thrive, Himself must either hold or drive.
It's a wicked thing to make a dearth one's garner.
Be slow to promise, but quick to perform.
No mill, no meal.
The ladle cools the pot.
None but fools and fiddlers sing at their meat.
Honey catches more flies than vinegar.
When in Rome, (do as the Romans do..
Who preacheth war is the devil's chaplain.
Land was never lost for want of an heir.
Little bodies have large souls.
Have not the cloak to make when it begins to rain.
Save me from my friends.
Proportion your expenses to what you have, not to what you expect.
Have but few friends, though many acquaintances.
What is worse than ill-luck.
He that will eat the kernel, must crack the nut.
The tongue breaketh bone, Though itself have none.
If Janiveer calends be summerly ga.
He can ill pipe that wants his upper lip.
If you must have an evil, choose a little one.
A full purse never lacketh friends.
A watched pot never boils.
Take care of the pence, and the pounds will take care of themselves.
The great Homer himself sometimes nods.
Many things grow in the garden that were never planted there.
Whatever you do, whatever you say, Tell your doctor and lawyer the truth alway.
Forgive and forget.
If it ain't broke, don't fix it.
None is so wise but the fool overtakes him sometimes.
To know the disease is half the cure.
It's poor sport that is not worth the candle.
Standing pools gather filth.
A stitch in time saves nine.
As well be hung for a sheep as a lamb.
The gown is hers who wears it, and the world is his who enjoys it.
The greatest barkers are not always the sorest biters.
Hunger costs little; daintiness much.
He that lives upon his wits, breaks for want of stock.
Be not the first by whom the new is tried, Be not the last to cast the old aside.
Fair and foolish, black and proud, Long and lazy, little and loud.
By wisdom peace, by peace plenty.
Least said is soonest mended.
Beauty is but skin deep.
Jest not at another's infirmities.
Who never climbed, never fell.
Words are but wind, But blows unkind.
Nothing is surer than death.
'Tis an ill guest that never drinks to his host.
Kill two birds with one stone.
All's fair in love and war.
Old habits die hard.
The charitable give out at the door, and God puts in at the window.
Patch and sit long, build and soon flit.
Punctuality begets confidence.
Children and chickens must be always picking.
He loseth nothing who keeps God for his friend.
It is the thrift of a spendthrift which ruins him most effectually.
Praise a fair day at night.
A poor man's table is soon spread.
Remove an old tree and it will wither to death.
Opportunity makes the thief.
Do what thou ought, let come what may.
To split knotty timber use smooth wedges.
Trust not a horse's heel, nor a dog's tooth.
It is good keeping his clothes who is going to swim.
A crooked tree will have a crooked shadow.
Small rain lays great dust.
A good name keeps its lustre in the dark.
When the tree is down, every one runs with his hatchet.
Misunderstanding brings lies to town.
Children and fools have merry lives.
Do not spur a free horse.
If the partridge had the woodcock's thigh, It would be the best bird that ever did fly.
None knows the weight of another's burden.
It takes two to tango.
One God, no more; but friends good store.
Any fool can bet.
Friday's sail, sure to fail.
Fish, or cut bait.
Sir John Barleycorn is the strongest knight.
Speculation completes what extravagance began.
If you play with a fool at home, he'll play with you in the market.
The bigger thet are the harder they fall.
Doing nothing is the hardest work.
Sweet discourse makes short days and nights.
Into every life a little rain must fall.
Judge not a ship as she lies on the stocks.
Old young, and old long.
He who laughs last, laughs best. (or 'longest'.
Plenty as blackberries.
'Tis an ill dog that deserves not a bone.
Where every hand fleeceth, the sheep go naked.
A tree is known by its fruit, and not by its leaves.
Words are like weights, gravity gives them effect.
Laugh, and the world laughs with you; (cry, and you cry alone..
Enough and to spare is too much.
If fools went not to market, bad ware would not be sold.
The mother's breath is always sweet.
Who in Janiveer sows oats, gets gold and groats.
Who so blind as he that will not see.
On a dark night an owl would be glad of a lantern.
No rest for the wicked.
A little mischief is too much.
He knows on which side his bread is buttered.
As poor as Job.
Take away my good name, and take away my life.
Money doesn't grow on trees.
Muffled cats are bad mousers.
Claw me, and I will claw you.
Life lies not in living, but in liking.
A young man idle, an old man needy.
The topmost branch is not the safest perch.
Who has not a good tongue, ought to have good hands.
You cannot see wood for trees.
'Tis a good horse that never stumbles, and a good wife that never grumbles.
The greatest crabs are not always the best meat.
The grass is always greener (on the other side of the fence).
Drink water like an ox, wine like a king of Spain.
Law makers should not be law breakers.
Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
'Tis money makes the mare to go.
When the steed is stolen the stable door shall be shut. ep by step the ladder is climbed.
The best lie is the worst.
Many drops make a shower.
You would make me believe the moon is made of green cheese.
They who have money are troubled about it, And they who have none are troubled without it.
Look to the main chance.
He that goes far from home for a wife, either intends to cheat or will be cheated.
'Tis not in mortals to command success, But we'll do more, Sempronius, we'll deserve it.
Bring forth May flowers.
There needs a long time to know the world's pulse.
A ragged colt may make a good horse.
A little good is soon spent.
Eat at pleasure, Drink by measure.
Saving is getting.
Remove an old tree and it will wither.
Men hold the reins, but the women tell them which way to drive.
He is wise enough that can keep himself warm in winter.
Fair fall truth and daylight.
Don't quarrel with the beggar for his bone.
Fools tie knots and wise men loose them.
Dainty dogs may have to eat dirty puddings.
Though the fox runs the chicken hath wings.
Don't rock the boat.
Better be envied than pitied.
Believe well and have well.
All the keys hang not at one man's girdle.
The first dish pleaseth all.
The world is his who knows how to wait for it.
An idle brain is the devil's workshop.
Hard upon hard makes a bad stone wall.
Flowers are the pledge of fruit.
The persuasion of the fortunate sways the doubtful.
A green wound is soon healed.
Wit may be bought too dear.
On Valentine's day will a good goose lay, If she be a good goose, her dame well to pay, She will lay two eggs before Valentine's day.
Mouth civility costs little but is worth less.
It's a bad dog that deserves not a crust.
'Tis too late, to spare when the bottom is bare.
Zeal without knowledge is the sister of folly.
Gentility without ability is worse than plain beggary.
The nearer the bone the sweeter the meat.
Every light has its shadow.
He that waits on another man's trencher, makes many a late dinner.
Deeds are fruits, words are but leaves.
A black plum is as sweet as a white.
He that hath no head, needs no hat.
Money makes money.
Genius is one percent inspiration and ninety-nine percent perspiration.
You can observe a lot just by watching.
A house divided against itself cannot stand.
Difficulties increase the nearer we get to the goal.
Fate is in your hands and no one elses
Be the chief but never the lord.
Nothing happens unless first we dream.
Well begun is half done.
Life is a learning experience, only if you learn.
Self-complacency is fatal to progress.
Peace comes from within. Do not seek it without.
What you give is what you get.
We can only learn to love by loving.
Life is change. Growth is optional. Choose wisely.
You'll see it when you believe it.
Today is the tomorrow we worried about yesterday.
It's easier to see the mistakes on someone else's paper.
Every man dies. Not every man really lives.
To lead people walk behind them.
Having nothing, nothing can he lose.
Trouble is only opportunity in work clothes.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
Ideas are the beginning points of all fortunes.
Everything in life is luck.
Doing nothing is better than being busy doing nothing.
Trust yourself. You know more than you think you do.
Study the past, if you would divine the future.
The day is already blessed, find peace within it.
From error to error one discovers the entire truth.
Well done is better than well said.
Bite off more than you can chew, then chew it.
Work out your own salvation. Do not depend on others.
One today is worth two tomorrows.
Once you choose hope, anythings possible.
God always takes the simplest way.
One fails forward toward success.
From small beginnings come great things.
Learning is a treasure that will follow its owner everywhere
Be as you wish to seem.
The world is always in movement.
Never mistake activity for achievement.
What worries you masters you.
One faces the future with ones past.
Goals are the fuel in the furnace of achievement.
Who sows virtue reaps honour.
Be kind whenever possible. It is always possible.
Talk doesn't cook rice.
He is able who thinks he is able.
A goal without a plan is just a wish.
To succeed, we must first believe that we can.
Learn from yesterday, live for today, hope for tomorrow.
A weed is no more than a flower in disguise.
Do, or do not. There is no try.
All serious daring starts from within.
The best teacher is experience learned from failures.
Think how hard physics would be if particles could think.
Love is the flower you've got to let grow.
Don't wait. The time will never be just right.
Time is the wisest counsellor of all.
You give before you get.
Wisdom begins in wonder.
Without courage, wisdom bears no fruit.
Change in all things is sweet.
What you fear is that which requires action to overcome.
When performance exceeds ambition, the overlap is called success.
When deeds speak, words are nothing.
Real magic in relationships means an absence of judgement of others.
I never think of the future. It comes soon enough.
Skill to do comes of doing.
Wisdom is the supreme part of happiness.
I believe that every person is born with talent.
Important principles may, and must, be inflexible.
The undertaking of a new action brings new strength.
The years teach much which the days never know.
Our distrust is very expensive.
All know the way; few actually walk it.
Great talent finds happiness in execution.
Faith in oneself is the best and safest course.
Courage is going from failure to failure without losing enthusiasm.
The two most powerful warriors are patience and time.
Anticipate the difficult by managing the easy.
Those who are free of resentful thoughts surely find peace.
A short saying often contains much wisdom.
It takes both sunshine and rain to make a rainbow.
A beautiful thing is never perfect.
Only do what your heart tells you.
Life is movement-we breathe, we eat, we walk, we move!
No one can make you feel inferior without your consent.
Argue for your limitations, and sure enough theyre yours.
Luck is what happens when preparation meets opportunity.
Victory belongs to the most persevering.
Love all, trust a few, do wrong to none.
In order to win, you must expect to win.
A goal is a dream with a deadline.
You can do it if you believe you can!
Set your goals high, and don't stop till you get there.
Every new day is another chance to change your life.
Smile, breathe, and go slowly.
Nobody will believe in you unless you believe in yourself.
Do more than dream: work.
No man was ever wise by chance.
Some pursue happiness, others create it.
He that is giddy thinks the world turns round.
Don't ruin the present with the ruined past.
Do something wonderful, people may imitate it.
We do what we do because we believe.
Do one thing every day that scares you.
If you cannot be silent be brilliant and thoughtful.
Who looks outside, dreams; who looks inside, awakes.
What we think, we become.
The shortest answer is doing.
All our knowledge has its origins in our perceptions.
The harder you fall, the higher you bounce.
Trusting our intuition often saves us from disaster.
Truth is powerful and it prevails.
Light tomorrow with today!
Silence is a fence around wisdom.
Society develops wit, but its contemplation alone forms genius.
The simplest things are often the truest.
Everyone smiles in the same language.
Yesterday I dared to struggle. Today I dare to win.
No alibi will save you from accepting the responsibility.
If you can dream it, you can do it.
It is better to travel well than to arrive.
Life shrinks or expands in proportion to one's courage.
You have to believe in yourself.
Our intention creates our reality.
Silence is a true friend who never betrays.
Character develops itself in the stream of life.
From little acorns mighty oaks do grow.
You can't stop the waves, but you can learn to surf.
Reality does not conform to the ideal, but confirms it.
Speak low, if you speak love.
A really great talent finds its happiness in execution.
Reality leaves a lot to the imagination.
The greatest remedy for anger is delay.
Growth itself contains the germ of happiness.
You can do what's reasonable or you can decide what's possible.
Nothing strengthens authority so much as silence.
Wherever you go, go with all your heart.
The only real valuable thing is intuition.
Good luck is another name for tenacity of purpose.
Rainbows apologize for angry skies.
Friendship isn't a big thing. It's a million little things.
Time is the most valuable thing a man can spend.
Whatever happens, take responsibility.
Experience is simply the name we give our mistakes.
I think and that is all that I am.
A good plan today is better than a perfect plan tomorrow.
If the shoe doesn't fit, must we change the foot?
Each day provides its own gifts.
While we stop to think, we often miss our opportunity.
Life isn't about finding yourself. Life is about creating yourself.
To bring anything into your life, imagine that it's already there.
Begin to weave and God will give you the thread.
The more you know yourself, the more you forgive yourself.
Someone remembers, someone cares; your name is whispered in someone's prayers.
Without faith, nothing is possible. With it, nothing is impossible.
Once we accept our limits, we go beyond them.
Don't be pushed by your problems; be led by your dreams.
Whatever we expect with confidence becomes our own self-fulfilling prophecy.
Everything you can imagine is real.
Fear is a darkroom where negatives develop.
The truest wisdom is a resolute determination.
Life is the flower for which love is the honey.
Freedom is the right to live as we wish.
Change your thoughts, change your life!
Never ignore a gut feeling, but never believe that it's enough.
Loss is nothing else but change,and change is Natures delight.
Someone is special only if you tell them.
Today is the tomorrow you worried about yesterday.
There is no way to happiness, happiness is the way.
The day always looks brighter from behind a smile.
A stumble may prevent a fall.
He who talks more is sooner exhausted.
He who is contented is rich.
What we achieve inwardly will change outer reality.
Our strength grows out of our weaknesses.
We must become the change we want to see.
Happiness is found in doing, not merely possessing.
Put your future in good hands : your own.
We choose our destiny in the way we treat others.
No snowflake in an avalanche ever feels responsible.
Fortune favours the brave.
I believe in one thing only, the power of human will.
The best way out is always through.
The mind unlearns with difficulty what it has long learned.
I destroy my enemies when I make them my friends.
No garden is without its weeds.
There is no failure except in no longer trying.
Kind words will unlock an iron door.
Problems are only opportunities with thorns on them.
Life is just a chance to grow a soul.
Mountains cannot be surmounted except by winding paths.
May our hearts garden of awakening bloom with hundreds of flowers.
Fortune befriends the bold.
Keep true to the dreams of thy youth.
You're never a loser until you quit trying.
Science is organized knowledge. Wisdom is organized life.
Knowing is not enough; we must apply!
Strong beliefs win strong men, and then make them stronger.
Autumn is a second spring when every leaf is a flower.
If you surrender to the wind, you can ride it.
Keep yourself to the sunshine and you cannot see the shadow.
Write your plans in pencil and give God the eraser.
Inspiration exists, but it has to find us working.
Pick battles big enough to matter, small enough to win.
Don't compromise yourself. You are all you've got.
A short saying oft contains much wisdom.
Difficulties are things that show a person what they are.
When you doubt your power, you give power to your doubt.
The cause is hidden. The effect is visible to all.
A prudent question is one half of wisdom.
The path to success is to take massive, determined action.
I allow my intuition to lead my path.
Nature takes away any faculty that is not used.
If you wish to be a writer, write.
There is no way to prosperity, prosperity is the way.
Either you run the day or the day runs you.
Better be ignorant of a matter than half know it.
Follow your instincts. That is where true wisdom manifests itself.
There never was a good knife made of bad steel.
To accomplish great things, we must dream as well as act.
Patience is the companion of wisdom.
The mind is everything. What you think you become.
To enjoy life, we must touch much of it lightly.
To fly, we have to have resistance.
What you see depends on what you're looking for.
The heart has its reasons which reason knows not of.
Be great in act, as you have been in thought.
Imagination rules the world.
Kind words do not cost much. Yet they accomplish much.
There is no greater harm than that of time wasted.
Intuition will tell the thinking mind where to look next.
Worry gives a small thing a big shadow.
Fears are nothing more than a state of mind.
The journey of a thousand miles begins with one step.
Efficiency is doing things right; effectiveness is doing the right things.
Blaze with the fire that is never extinguished.
Don't cry because it's over. Smile because it happened.
No is easier to do. Yes is easier to say.
To be wrong is nothing unless you continue to remember it.
Yesterdays home runs don't win today's games.
Silence is deep as Eternity, Speech is shallow as Time.
Don't smother each other. No one can grow in the shade.
An ant on the move does more than a dozing ox
You can't shake hands with a clenched fist.
A good decision is based on knowledge and not on numbers.
The cautious seldom err.
If there is no struggle, there is no progress.
Where there is great love, there are always miracles.
Time you enjoy wasting, was not wasted.
Every problem has a gift for you in its hands.
Sadness flies away on the wings of time.
I have often regretted my speech, never my silence.
Never put off till tomorrow what you can do today.
Minds are like parachutes. They only function when open.
If a man does his best, what else is there?
The secret of success is constancy to purpose.
Life is a progress, and not a station.
All seasons are beautiful for the person who carries happiness within.
To avoid criticism, do nothing, say nothing, be nothing.
All things change; nothing perishes.
Absence makes the heart grow fonder.
Imagination is the highest kite one can fly.
The beginning of knowledge is the discovery of something we do not understand.
Love doesn't make the world go round, love is what makes the ride worthwhile.
Whenever you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.
Good timber does not grow with ease; the stronger the wind, the stronger the trees.
I believe that we are fundamentally the same and have the same basic potential.
The winds and waves are always on the side of the ablest navigators.
The future belongs to those who believe in the beauty of their dreams.
To get something you never had, you have to do something you never did.
Be thankful when you don't know something for it gives you the opportunity to learn.
Strength does not come from physical capacity. It comes from an indomitable will.
Each misfortune you encounter will carry in it the seed of tomorrows good luck.
To forgive is to set a prisoner free and realize that prisoner was you.
In separateness lies the world's great misery, in compassion lies the world's true strength.
By believing passionately in something that does not yet exist, we create it.
Letting go isn't the end of the world; it's the beginning of a new life.
All the great performers I have worked with are fuelled by a personal dream.
One of the advantages of being disorderly is that one is constantly making exciting discoveries.
I never see what has been done; I only see what remains to be done.
Begin at once to live and count each separate day as a separate life.
If you don't know where you are going, you will probably end up somewhere else.
It is not so important to know everything as to appreciate what we learn.
The bird of paradise alights only upon the hand that does not grasp.
Think as a wise man but communicate in the language of the people.
Practice yourself, for heavens sake in little things, and then proceed to greater.
If one does not know to which port is sailing, no wind is favorable.
Our greatest glory is not in never failing but rising everytime we fall.
Being right is highly overrated. Even a stopped clock is right twice a day.
To be upset over what you don't have is to waste what you do have.
If we did the things we are capable of, we would astound ourselves.
Nothing in life is to be feared. It is only to be understood.
Successful people ask better questions, and as a result, they get better answers.
Love is not blind; it simply enables one to see things others fail to see.
Life is a process. We are a process. The universe is a process.
I think somehow we learn who we really are and then live with that decision.
We learn what we have said from those who listen to our speaking.
A little knowledge that acts is worth infinitely more than much knowledge that is idle.
If you get up one more time than you fall, you will make it through.
The doors we open and close each day decide the lives we live.
The worst bankrupt in the world is the person who has lost his enthusiasm.
Happiness comes when your work and words are of benefit to yourself and others.
Don't focus on making the right decision, focus on making the decision the right one.
Everything is perfect in the universe, even your desire to improve it.
The universe is full of magical things, patiently waiting for our wits to grow sharper.
Just as a candle cannot burn without fire, men cannot live without a spiritual life.
A thing long expected takes the form of the unexpected when at last it comes.
Action may not always bring happiness; but there is no happiness without action.
I don't believe in failure. It is not failure if you enjoyed the process.
What you do not want done to yourself, do not do to others.
Short words are best and the old words when short are best of all.
If you light a lamp for somebody, it will also brighten your path.
I have done my best: that is about all the philosophy of living one needs.
Through perseverance many people win success out of what seemed destined to be certain failure.
Give thanks for the rain of life that propels us to reach new horizons.
Love is just a word until someone comes along and gives it meaning.
We all have problems. The way we solve them is what makes us different.
The secret to a rich life is to have more beginnings than endings.
It is only when the mind and character slumber that the dress can be seen.
If you don't like something, change it. If you can't change it, change your attitude.
Reviewing what you have learned and learning anew, you are fit to be a teacher.
The world is a book, and those who do not travel read only a page.
So long as a person is capable of self-renewal they are a living being.
I'm not afraid of storms, for Im learning how to sail my ship.
Think for yourselves and let others enjoy the privilege to do so too.
How we spend our days is, of course, how we spend our lives.
It has never been my object to record my dreams, just to realize them.
The most complicated achievements of thought are possible without the assistance of consciousness.
Be miserable. Or motivate yourself. Whatever has to be done, it's always your choice.
Most great people have attained their greatest success just one step beyond their greatest failure.
If you think you can, you can. And if you think you can't, you're right.
Better to have loved and lost, than to have never loved at all.
Everyone thinks of changing the world, but no one thinks of changing himself.
The best way to pay for a lovely moment is to enjoy it.
You have enemies? Good. That means you've stood up for something, sometime in your life.
Slow down and everything you are chasing will come around and catch you.
Your worst enemy cannot harm you as much as your own unguarded thoughts.
I always wanted to be somebody, but I should have been more specific.
Yeah we all shine on, like the moon, and the stars, and the sun.
Knowledge is a process of piling up facts; wisdom lies in their simplification.
Life is like riding a bicycle. To keep your balance you must keep moving.
We should all be thankful for those people who rekindle the inner spirit.
Opportunity is missed by most because it is dressed in overalls and looks like work.
Feeling and longing are the motive forces behind all human endeavor and human creations.
In the end we retain from our studies only that which we practically apply.
If you correct your mind, the rest of your life will fall into place.
The world makes way for the man who knows where he is going.
When your desires are strong enough you will appear to possess superhuman powers to achieve.
Patience and perseverance have a magical effect before which difficulties disappear and obstacles vanish.
I cannot make my days longer so I strive to make them better.
Tension is who you think you should be. Relaxation is who you are.
Never bend your head. Always hold it high. Look the world right in the eye.
One who gains strength by overcoming obstacles possesses the only strength which can overcome adversity.
We cannot do everything at once, but we can do something at once.
You have to do your own growing no matter how tall your grandfather was.
Invent your world. Surround yourself with people, color, sounds, and work that nourish you.
It is fatal to enter any war without the will to win it.
Be what you are. This is the first step toward becoming better than you are.
There is nothing in a caterpillar that tells you it's going to be a butterfly.
Love and compassion open our own inner life, reducing stress, distrust and loneliness.
Ideals are an imaginative understanding of that which is desirable in that which is possible.
The superior man is satisfied and composed; the mean man is always full of distress.
If you spend too much time thinking about a thing, you'll never get it done.
The way is not in the sky. The way is in the heart.
Most people are about as happy as they make up their minds to be
Three things cannot be long hidden: the sun, the moon, and the truth.
More often than not, anger is actually an indication of weakness rather than of strength.
Before you put on a frown, make absolutely sure there are no smiles available.
A man of ability and the desire to accomplish something can do anything.
You, yourself, as much as anybody in the entire universe, deserve your love and affection.
It is not uncommon for people to spend their whole life waiting to start living.
Don't be afraid to go out on a limb. That's where the fruit is.
Wicked people are always surprised to find ability in those that are good.
Life is so constructed that an event does not, cannot, will not, match the expectation.
If you change the way you look at things, the things you look at change.
No man can succeed in a line of endeavor which he does not like.
You will not be punished for your anger, you will be punished by your anger.
Don't judge each day by the harvest you reap but by the seeds you plant.
They say that time changes things, but you actually have to change them yourself.
Never apologize for showing feelings. When you do so, you apologize for the truth.
The truth you believe and cling to makes you unavailable to hear anything new.
Adversity has the effect of eliciting talents, which in prosperous circumstances would have lain dormant.
If you spend your whole life waiting for the storm, you'll never enjoy the sunshine.
The only limit to our realization of tomorrow will be our doubts of today.
Every action of our lives touches on some chord that will vibrate in eternity.
Shoot for the moon. Even if you miss, you'll land among the stars.
It does not matter how slowly you go as long as you do not stop.
Every day may not be good, but there's something good in every day.
Most folks are about as happy as they make up their minds to be.
If you would take, you must first give, this is the beginning of intelligence.
Some people think it's holding that makes one strong, sometimes it's letting go.
It is on our failures that we base a new and different and better success.
Quality is never an accident; it is always the result of intelligent effort.
To study and not think is a waste. To think and not study is dangerous.
Life is a succession of lessons, which must be lived to be understood.
Time changes everything except something within us which is always surprised by change.
You are important enough to ask and you are blessed enough to receive back.
If you cannot do great things, do small things in a great way.
If you want your life to be more rewarding, you have to change the way you think.
Transformation doesn't take place with a vacuum; instead, it occurs when we are indirectly and directly connected to all those around us.
The only difference between your abilities and others is the ability to put yourself in their shoes and actually try.
The free man is he who does not fear to go to the end of his thought.
Great are they who see that spiritual is stronger than any material force, that thoughts rule the world.
A life spent making mistakes is not only more honourable but more useful than a life spent in doing nothing.
The wise man does not lay up his own treasures. The more he gives to others, the more he has for his own.
Don't leave a stone unturned. It's always something, to know you have done the most you could.
By going beyond your own problems and taking care of others, you gain inner strength, self-confidence, courage, and a greater sense of calm.
We come to love not by finding a perfect person, but by learning to see an imperfect person perfectly.
What lies behind us and what lies before us are tiny matters compared to what lies within us.
There are things so deep and complex that only intuition can reach it in our stage of development as human beings.
A little more persistence, a little more effort, and what seemed hopeless failure may turn to glorious success.
There is no retirement for an artist, it's your way of living so there is no end to it.
I will not be concerned at other men is not knowing me;I will be concerned at my own want of ability.
Why worry about things you can't control when you can keep yourself busy controlling the things that depend on you?
When you are content to be simply yourself and don't compare or compete, everybody will respect you.
Be not afraid of greatness: some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon them.
Success means having the courage, the determination, and the will to become the person you believe you were meant to be.
Do you want to know who you are? Don't ask. Act! Action will delineate and define you.
It is only with the heart that one can see rightly, what is essential is invisible to the eye.
Let us be grateful to people who make us happy; they are the charming gardeners who make our souls blossom.
Make the best use of what is in your power, and take the rest as it happens.
The thoughts we choose to think are the tools we use to paint the canvas of our lives.
No matter how carefully you plan your goals they will never be more that pipe dreams unless you pursue them with gusto.
The reason most goals are not achieved is that we spend our time doing second things first.
If your actions inspire others to dream more, learn more, do more and become more, you are a leader.
I'm a great believer in luck and I find the harder I work, the more I have of it.
Do not waste yourself in rejection, nor bark against the bad, but chant the beauty of the good.
The person born with a talent they are meant to use will find their greatest happiness in using it.
Good people are good because they've come to wisdom through failure. We get very little wisdom from success, you know.
Your destiny isn't just fate; it is how you use your own developed abilities to get what you want.
Iron rusts from disuse; water loses its purity from stagnation... even so does inaction sap the vigour of the mind.
A subtle thought that is in error may yet give rise to fruitful inquiry that can establish truths of great value.
Be glad of life because it gives you the chance to love, to work, to play, and to look up at the stars.
You got to be careful if you don't know where you're going, because you might not get there.
You can tell whether a man is clever by his answers. You can tell whether a man is wise by his questions.
Life is a gift, and it offers us the privilege, opportunity, and responsibility to give something back by becoming more
You can't let praise or criticism get to you. It's a weakness to get caught up in either one.
I will love the light for it shows me the way, yet I will endure the darkness because it shows me the stars.
Our doubts are traitors and make us lose the good we often might win, by fearing to attempt.
By nature man hates change; seldom will he quit his old home till it has actually fallen around his ears.
Until you value yourself, you won't value your time. Until you value your time, you won't do anything with it.
The minute you settle for less than you deserve, you get even less than you settled for.
The highest stage in moral ure at which we can arrive is when we recognize that we ought to control our thoughts.
It is better to take many small steps in the right direction than to make a great leap forward only to stumble backward.
If we have a positive mental attitude, then even when surrounded by hostility, we shall not lack inner peace.
There is only one success, to be able to spend your life in your own way.
Promises are the uniquely human way of ordering the future, making it predictable and reliable to the extent that this is humanly possible.
Appreciation is the highest form of prayer, for it acknowledges the presence of good wherever you shine the light of your thankful thoughts.
There is only one corner of the universe you can be certain of improving, and that's your own self.
You're not obligated to win. You're obligated to keep trying to do the best you can every day.
Everyone can taste success when the going is easy, but few know how to taste victory when times get tough.
Deep listening is miraculous for both listener and speaker.When someone receives us with open-hearted, non-judging, intensely interested listening, our spirits expand.
You may be deceived if you trust too much, but you will live in torment if you don't trust enough.
Great indeed is the sublimity of the Creative, to which all beings owe their beginning and which permeates all heaven.
All that is necessary is to accept the impossible, do without the indispensable, and bear the intolerable.
Choose a job you love, and you will never have to work a day in your life.
You cannot find yourself by going into the past. You can find yourself by coming into the present.
All our talents increase in the using, and the every faculty, both good and bad, strengthen by exercise.
In order to live free and happily you must sacrifice boredom. It is not always an easy sacrifice.
The fox has many tricks. The hedgehog has but one. But that is the best of all.
Of course there is no formula for success except perhaps an unconditional acceptance of life and what it brings.
Let me tell you the secret that has led me to my goal: my strength lies solely in my tenacity
Something opens our wings. Something makes boredom and hurt disappear. Someone fills the cup in front of us: We taste only sacredness.
We must never forget that it is through our actions, words, and thoughts that we have a choice.
We see things not as they are, but as we are. Our perception is shaped by our previous experiences.
True silence is the rest of the mind; it is to the spirit what sleep is to the body, nourishment and refreshment.
All our knowledge begins with the senses, proceeds then to the understanding, and ends with reason. There is nothing higher than reason.
The thought manifests as the word. The word manifests as the deed. The deed develops into habit. And the habit hardens into character.
As the rest of the world is walking out the door, your best friends are the ones walking in.
Patience is a virtue but you will never ever accomplish anything if you don't exercise action over patience.
Any of us can achieve virtue, if by virtue we merely mean the avoidance of the vices that do not attract us.
If the single man plant himself indomitably on his instincts, and there abide, the huge world will come round to him.
Money was never a big motivation for me, except as a way to keep score. The real excitement is playing the game.
Friendship with oneself is all important because without it one cannot be friends with anybody else in the world.
Peace is not something you wish for. It's something you make, something you do, something you are, and something you give away.
A wise man can learn more from a foolish question than a fool can learn from a wise answer.
Every man takes the limits of his own field of vision for the limits of the world.
One does not discover new lands without consenting to lose sight of the shore for a very long time.
What is new in the world? Nothing. What is old in the world? Nothing. Everything has always been and will always be.
Genuine love should first be directed at oneself. if we do not love ourselves, how can we love others?
Life is like a sewer. What you get out of it depends on what you put into it.
Notice that the stiffest tree is most easily cracked, while the bamboo or willow survives by bending with the wind.
Learn all you can from the mistakes of others. You won't have time to make them all yourself.
Judge nothing, you will be happy. Forgive everything, you will be happier. Love everything, you will be happiest.
People are so constituted that everybody would rather undertake what they see others do, whether they have an aptitude for it or not.
We are either progressing or retrograding all the while. There is no such thing as remaining stationary in this life.
The possession of knowledge does not kill the sense of wonder and mystery. There is always more mystery.
Everything that happens happens as it should, and if you observe carefully, you will find this to be so.
What we think determines what happens to us, so if we want to change our lives, we need to stretch our minds.
In a controversy the instant we feel anger we have already ceased striving for the truth, and have begun striving for ourselves.
It is the greatest of all mistakes to do nothing because you can only do little, do what you can.
When you see a man of worth, think of how you may emulate him. When you see one who is unworthy, examine yourself.
Aerodynamically the bumblebee shouldn't be able to fly, but the bumblebee doesn't know that so it goes on flying anyway.
Those who try to do something and fail are infinitely better than those who try nothing and succeed.
Snowflakes are one of natures most fragile things, but just look what they can do when they stick together.
The first step to getting the things you want out of life is this: decide what you want.
Why compare yourself with others? No one in the entire world can do a better job of being you than you.
Experience is not what happens to a man. It is what a man does with what happens to him.
A good teacher is like a candle, it consumes itself to light the way for others.
The only thing to do with good advice is to pass it on. It is never of any use to oneself.
Life is not measured by the breaths we take, but by the moments that take our breath.
The smallest flower is a thought, a life answering to some feature of the Great Whole, of whom they have a persistent intuition.
Consider how hard it is to change yourself and you'll understand what little chance you have in trying to change others.
If you'll not settle for anything less than your best, you will be amazed at what you can accomplish in your lives.
What lies behind us and what lies before us are small matters compared to what lies within us.
With the realization of ones own potential and self-confidence in ones ability, one can build a better world.
There is nothing like returning to a place that remains unchanged to find the ways in which you yourself have altered.
Forget about all the reasons why something may not work. You only need to find one good reason why it will.
It is the mark of an educated mind to be able to entertain a thought without accepting it.
Love is never lost. If not reciprocated, it will flow back and soften and purify the heart.
We all live with the objective of being happy; our lives are all different and yet the same.
Many people think of prosperity that concerns money only to forget that true prosperity is of the mind.
To be beautiful means to be yourself. You don't need to be accepted by others. You need to accept yourself.
Do not overrate what you have received, nor envy others. He who envies others does not obtain peace of mind.
It is very easy to forgive others their mistakes; it takes more grit to forgive them for having witnessed your own.
Bodily exercise, when compulsory, does no harm to the body; but knowledge which is acquired under compulsion obtains no hold on the mind.
Always be yourself, express yourself, have faith in yourself, do not go out and look for a successful personality and duplicate it.
Let us revere, let us worship, but erect and open-eyed, the highest, not the lowest; the future, not the past!
Every time you smile at someone, it is an action of love, a gift to that person, a beautiful thing.
Silences make the real conversations between friends. Not the saying but the never needing to say is what counts.
The key to transforming our hearts and minds is to have an understanding of how our thoughts and emotions work.
If you must tell me your opinions, tell me what you believe in. I have plenty of douts of my own.
Chance is always powerful. Let your hook be always cast; in the pool where you least expect it, there will be a fish.
I seek constantly to improve my manners and graces, for they are the sugar to which all are attracted.
We never understand how little we need in this world until we know the loss of it.
The real measure of your wealth is how much youd be worth if you lost all your money.
To keep the body in good health is a duty... otherwise we shall not be able to keep our mind strong and clear.
Take no thought of who is right or wrong or who is better than. Be not for or against.
I am a man of fixed and unbending principles, the first of which is to be flexible at all times.
Today, give a stranger a smile without waiting for it may be the joy they need to have a great day.
The moment one gives close attention to anything, even a blade of grass, it becomes a mysterious, awesome, indescribably magnificent world in itself.
At the center of your being you have the answer; you know who you are and you know what you want.
How wonderful that we have met with a paradox. Now we have some hope of making progress.
Everyone is a genius at least once a year. A real genius has his original ideas closer together.
Dreams pass into the reality of action. From the actions stems the dream again; and this interdependence produces the highest form of living.
Without leaps of imagination, or dreaming, we lose the excitement of possibilities. Dreaming, after all, is a form of planning.
Sadness may be part of life but there is no need to let it dominate your entire life.
Keeping a little ahead of conditions is one of the secrets of business, the trailer seldom goes far.
Nature gave us one tongue and two ears so we could hear twice as much as we speak.
Don't wait for your feelings to change to take the action. Take the action and your feelings will change.
You are always free to change your mind and choose a different future, or a different past.
You were not born a winner, and you were not born a loser. You are what you make yourself be.
Cherish your visions and your dreams as they are the children of your soul, the blueprints of your ultimate achievements.
To be what we are, and to become what we are capable of becoming, is the only end of life.
The road leading to a goal does not separate you from the destination; it is essentially a part of it.
Take things as they are. Punch when you have to punch. Kick when you have to kick.
I believe that a simple and unassuming manner of life is best for everyone, best both for the body and the mind.
Though no one can go back and make a brand new start, anyone can start from now and make a brand new ending.
Mind is everything: muscle, pieces of rubber. All that I am, I am because of my mind.
How wonderful it is that nobody need wait a single moment before starting to improve the world.
A friend is someone who understands your past, believes in your future, and accepts you just the way you are.
It is one of the blessings of old friends that you can afford to be stupid with them.
He that never changes his opinions, never corrects his mistakes, and will never be wiser on the morrow than he is today.
Give me six hours to chop down a tree and I will spend the first four sharpening the axe.
One must be fond of people and trust them if one is not to make a mess of life.
We cannot change our memories, but we can change their meaning and the power they have over us.
Being in humaneness is good. If we select other goodness and thus are far apart from humaneness, how can we be the wise?
To give hope to someone occurs when you teach them how to use the tools to do it for themselves.
Id rather regret the things that I have done than the things that I have not done.
The past has no power to stop you from being present now. Only your grievance about the past can do that.
If the stars should appear but one night every thousand years how man would marvel and adore.
There are two kinds of failures: those who thought and never did, and those who did and never thought.
I'm not interested in age. People who tell me their age are silly. You're as old as you feel.
I find hope in the darkest of days, and focus in the brightest. I do not judge the universe.
When it is obvious that the goals cannot be reached, don't adjust the goals, adjust the action steps.
Our virtues and our failings are inseparable, like force and matter. When they separate, man is no more.
Blessed is the person who is too busy to worry in the daytime, and too sleepy to worry at night.
He can who thinks he can, and he can't who thinks he can't. This is an inexorable, indisputable law.
These days people seek knowledge, not wisdom. Knowledge is of the past, wisdom is of the future.
One secret of success in life is for a man to be ready for his opportunity when it comes.
People take different roads seeking fulfilment and happiness. Just because theyre not on your road doesn't mean they've gotten lost.
The shoe that fits one person pinches another; there is no recipe for living that suits all cases.
There are only two mistakes one can make along the road to truth; not going all the way, and not starting.
Very little is needed to make a happy life; it is all within yourself, in your way of thinking.
Giving up doesn't always mean you are weak. Sometimes it means that you are strong enough to let go.
Treat people as if they were what they ought to be and you help them to become what they are capable of being.
The most precious gift we can offer anyone is our attention. When mindfulness embraces those we love, they will bloom like flowers.
If you focus on results, you will never change. If you focus on change, you will get results.
I would maintain that thanks are the highest form of thought, and that gratitude is happiness doubled by wonder.
There are two primary choices in life: to accept conditions as they exist, or accept the responsibility for changing them.
All difficult things have their origin in that which is easy, and great things in that which is small.
You can be what you want to be. You have the power within and we will help you always.
To speak gratitude is courteous and pleasant, to enact gratitude is generous and noble, but to live gratitude is to touch Heaven.
Wisdom is the reward you get for a lifetime of listening when you'd have preferred to talk.
The greatest pleasure I know is to do a good action by stealth, and to have it found out by accident.
When one tugs at a single thing in nature, he finds it attached to the rest of the world.
Courage is what it takes to stand up and speak; courage is also what it takes to sit down and listen.
The most beautiful things in the world cannot be seen or even touched. They must be felt with the heart.
To live a pure unselfish life, one must count nothing as ones own in the midst of abundance.
Many of life's failures are people who did not realize how close they were to success when they gave up.
When we seek to discover the best in others, we somehow bring out the best in ourselves.
If you accept the expectations of others, especially negative ones, then you never will change the outcome.
A man may fulfil the object of his existence by asking a question he cannot answer, and attempting a task he cannot achieve.
I am not bothered by the fact that I am unknown. I am bothered when I do not know others.
He is a wise man who does not grieve for the things which he has not, but rejoices for those which he has.
I am always doing that which I cannot do, in order that I may learn how to do it.
If you're walking down the right path and you're willing to keep walking, eventually you'll make progress.
The world is round and the place which may seem like the end may also be the beginning.
Never miss an opportunity to make others happy, even if you have to leave them alone in order to do it.
Give it all you've got because you never know if there's going to be a next time.
You have to take it as it happens, but you should try to make it happen the way you want to take it.
Nothing is predestined: The obstacles of your past can become the gateways that lead to new beginnings.
Im not in this world to live up to your expectations and you're not in this world to live up to mine.
Sometimes your joy is the source of your smile, but sometimes your smile can be the source of your joy.
I can't imagine a person becoming a success who doesn't give this game of life everything hes got.
The greatest way to live with honor in this world is to be what we pretend to be.
The conditions of conquest are always easy. We have but to toil awhile, endure awhile, believe always, and never turn back.
The grand essentials of happiness are: something to do, something to love, and something to hope for.
By living deeply in the present moment we can understand the past better and we can prepare for a better future.
Do not be too timid and squeamish about your reactions. All life is an experiment. The more experiments you make the better.
Do not go where the path may lead, go instead where there is no path and leave a trail.
There is no duty we so underrate as the duty of being happy. By being happy we sow anonymous benefits upon the world.
Edison failed 10,000 times before he made the electric light. Do not be discouraged if you fail a few times.
Yesterday is history. Tomorrow is a mystery. And today? Today is a gift that's why they call it the present.
The only way to tell the truth is to speak with kindness. Only the words of a loving man can be heard.
The greatest good you can do for another is not just to share your riches but to reveal to him his own.
You can only grow if you're willing to feel awkward and uncomfortable when you try something new.
To free us from the expectations of others, to give us back to ourselves, there lies the great, singular power of self-respect.
It is more important to know where you are going than to get there quickly. Do not mistake activity for achievement.
When you don't know what you believe, everything becomes an argument. Everything is debatable. But when you stand for something, decisions are obvious.
Intuition is the supra-logic that cuts out all the routine processes of thought and leaps straight from the problem to the answer.
The thing always happens that you really believe in; and the belief in a thing makes it happen.
A true friend is the most precious of all possessions and the one we take the least thought about acquiring.
There is only one way to happiness and that is to cease worrying about things which are beyond the power of our will.
Appreciation can make a day, even change a life. Your willingness to put it into words is all that is necessary.
Every sixty seconds you spend angry, upset or mad, is a full minute of happiness you'll never get back.
This world, after all our science and sciences, is still a miracle; wonderful, inscrutable, magical and more, to whosoever will think of it.
Every great mistake has a halfway moment, a split second when it can be recalled and perhaps remedied.
You can adopt the attitude there is nothing you can do, or you can see the challenge as your call to action.
The happiness of a man in this life does not consist in the absence but in the mastery of his passions.
Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed people can change the world. Indeed. It is the only thing that ever has.
Let your hook always be cast; in the pool where you least expect it, there will be a fish.
You get peace of mind not by thinking about it or imagining it, but by quietening and relaxing the restless mind.
Your friends will know you better in the first minute you meet than your acquaintances will know you in a thousand years.
When you begin to touch your heart or let your heart be touched, you begin to discover that it's bottomless.
If you love someone, set them free. If they come back they're yours; if they don't they never were.
Wisdom is knowing what to do next; Skill is knowing how ot do it, and Virtue is doing it.
Bad things are not the worst things that can happen to us. Nothing is the worst thing that can happen to us!
No valid plans for the future can be made by those who have no capacity for living now.
The aim of life is self-development. To realize ones nature perfectly, that is what each of us is here for.
To accomplish great things, we must not only act, but also dream; not only plan, but also believe.
The first requisite for success is the ability to apply your physical and mental energies to one problem incessantly without growing weary.
If we could learn to like ourselves, even a little, maybe our cruelties and angers might melt away.
If we are facing in the right direction, all we have to do is keep on walking.
Remember always that you not only have the right to be an individual, you have an obligation to be one.
There are two primary choices in life: to accept conditions as they exist, or accept responsibility for changing them.
If you seek truth you will not seek victory by dishonourable means, and if you find truth you will become invincible.
Through meditation and by giving full attention to one thing at a time, we can learn to direct attention where we choose.
We could never learn to be brave and patient if there were only joy in the world.
If it is not right do not do it; if it is not true do not say it.
The truth of the matter is that you always know the right thing to do. The hard part is doing it.
Some people thrive on huge, dramatic change. Some people prefer the slow and steady route. Do what's right for you.
Man is equally incapable of seeing the nothingness from which he emerges and the infinity in which he is engulfed.
Arrogance and rudeness are training wheels on the bicycle of life, for weak people who cannot keep their balance without them.
If you are patient in one moment of anger, you will escape one hundred days of sorrow.
When you have got an elephant by the hind legs and he is trying to run away, it's best to let him run.
Courage is not about taking risks unknowingly but putting your own being in front of challenges that others may not be able to.
Can miles truly separate you from friends... If you want to be with someone you love, aren't you already there?
The poor man is not he who is without a cent, but he who is without a dream.
The greatest good you can do for another is not just share your riches, but reveal to them their own.
Do not dwell in the past, do not dream of the future, concentrate the mind on the present moment.
Peace of mind is not the absence of conflict from life, but the ability to cope with it.
Face your deficiencies and acknowledge them; but do not let them master you. Let them teach you patience, sweetness, insight.
Change is the law of life. And those who look only to the past or present are certain to miss the future.
You have power over your mind, not outside events. Realize this, and you will find strength.
Let me tell you the secret that has led me to my goal: my strength lies solely in my tenacity.
We are what we think. All that we are arises with our thoughts. With our thoughts, we make the world.
He that respects himself is safe from others; he wears a coat of mail that none can pierce.
I cannot always control what goes on outside. But I can always control what goes on inside.
What matters is the value we've created in our lives, the people we've made happy and how much we've grown as people.
When you are offended at any man's fault, turn to yourself and study your own failings. Then you will forget your anger.
Everyone has been made for some particular work, and the desire for that work has been put in every heart.
Take time to deliberate, but when the time for action has arrived, stop thinking and go in.
With realization of ones own potential and self-confidence in ones ability, one can build a better world.
Happiness is not in the mere possession of money; it lies in the joy of achievement, in the thrill of creative effort.
You cannot make yourself feel something you do not feel, but you can make yourself do right in spite of your feelings.
Those who are blessed with the most talent don't necessarily outperform everyone else. It's the people with follow-through who excel.
Try not to become a man of success, but rather try to become a man of value.
Men of perverse opinion do not know the excellence of what is in their hands, till some one dash it from them.
It is not enough to have a good mind; the main thing is to use it well.
Responsibility is not inherited, it is a choice that everyone needs to make at some point in their life.
Never do things others can do and will do, if there are things others cannot do or will not do.
I can't change the direction of the wind, but I can adjust my sails to always reach my destination.
People of mediocre ability sometimes achieve outstanding success because they don't know when to quit. Most men succeed because they are determined to.
A fine quotation is a diamond on the finger of a man of wit, and a pebble in the hand of a fool.
Life's challenges are not supposed to paralyse you, they're supposed to help you discover who you are.
The greatest way to live with honour in this world is to be what we pretend to be.
To exist is to change, to change is to mature, to mature is to go on creating oneself endlessly.
Try not to become a man of success but rather try to become a man of value.
You can't create in a vacuum. Life gives you the material and dreams can propel new beginnings.
Your work is to discover your world and then with all your heart give yourself to it.
The person who lives life fully, glowing with life's energy, is the person who lives a successful life.
Don't turn away from possible futures before you're certain you don't have anything to learn from them.
A successful person is one who can lay a firm foundation with the bricks that others throw at him or her.
All that we are is the result of what we have thought. The mind is everything. What we think we become.
Work while you have the light. You are responsible for the talent that has been entrusted to you.
How far that little candle throws its beams! So shines a good deed in a naughty world.
Every adversity, every failure, every heartache carries with it the seed of an equal or greater benefit.
It is in your moments of decision that your destiny is shaped.
An obstacle may be either a stepping stone or a stumbling block.
The pain passes, but the beauty remains.
All I can say about life is, Oh God, enjoy it!
Creativity comes from trust. Trust your instincts. And never hope more than you work.
Your outlook on life is a direct reflection on how much you like yourself.
I have just three things to teach: simplicity, patience, compassion. These three are your greatest treasures.
You won't skid if you stay in a rut.
You block your dream when you allow your fear to grow bigger than your faith.
Happiness depends upon ourselves.
Wherever a man turns he can find someone who needs him.
If one is lucky, a solitary fantasy can totally transform one million realities.
Never idealize others. They will never live up to your expectations.
When you realize there is nothing lacking, the whole world belongs to you.
Happiness is not something ready made. It comes from your own actions.
Meaning is not what you start with but what you end up with.
No one has ever become poor by giving.
Be faithful in small things because it is in them that your strength lies.
All is flux; nothing stays still.
He who is fixed to a star does not change his mind.
He who lives in harmony with himself lives in harmony with the universe.
Ignorant men don't know what good they hold in their hands until they've flung it away.
When the solution is simple, God is answering.
All achievements, all earned riches, have their beginning in an idea.
Do not turn back when you are just at the goal.
You can't trust without risk but neither can you live in a cocoon.
All perceiving is also thinking, all reasoning is also intuition, all observation is also invention.
Error is discipline through which we advance.
The truth is always exciting. Speak it, then. Life is dull without it.
The superior man is modest in his speech, but exceeds in his actions.
The longer we dwell on our misfortunes, the greater is their power to harm us.
Those who will play with cats must expect to be scratched.
I've never seen a smiling face that was not beautiful.
In all things of nature there is something of the marvellous.
The universe is transformation; our life is what our thoughts make it.
Memory is the mother of all wisdom.
Silence is the true friend that never betrays.
You might well remember that nothing can bring you success but yourself.
Watch the little things; a small leak will sink a great ship.
God has given you one face, and you make yourself another.
To be wronged is nothing unless you continue to remember it.
Kindness is the greatest wisdom.
Action will remove the doubts that theory cannot solve.
Don't miss all the beautiful colors of the rainbow looking for that pot of gold.
Your big opportunity may be right where you are now.
People who say it cannot be done should not interrupt those who are doing it.
The day you decide to do it is your lucky day.
We must not say every mistake is a foolish one.
Accept challenges, so that you may feel the exhilaration of victory.
It is better to understand a little than to misunderstand a lot.
You don't drown by falling in water. You drown by staying there.
Never be afraid to try, remember... Amateurs built the ark, Professionals built the Titanic.
Correction does much, but encouragement does more.
Know, first, who you are, and then adorn yourself accordingly.
The biggest adventure you can ever take is to live the life of your dreams.
Life is 10% what happens to you and 90% how you react to it.
To want to be what one can be is purpose in life.
Remember that sometimes not getting what you want is a wonderful stroke of luck.
History will be kind to me for I intend to write it.
Our lives are a sum total of the choices we have made.
Time stays long enough for anyone who will use it.
Never tell me the sky's the limit when there are footprints on the moon.
You must welcome change as the rule but not as your ruler.
Give whatever you are doing and whoever you are with the gift of your attention.
Always be smarter than the people who hire you.
Formula for success: under promise and over deliver.
The eye sees only what the mind is prepared to comprehend.
People seldom notice old clothes if you wear a big smile.
The more light you allow within you, the brighter the world you live in will be.
Nothing diminishes anxiety faster than action.
Man cannot discover new oceans unless he has the courage to lose sight of the shore.
Everything that irritates us about others can lead us to an understanding about ourselves.
Can you imagine what I would do if I could do all I can?
Ignorance never settle a question.
The awareness of our own strength makes us modest.
They must often change, who would be constant in happiness or wisdom.
There are no failures. Just experiences and your reactions to them.
Your future depends on many things, but mostly on you.
Fear grows in darkness; if you think theres a bogeyman around, turn on the light.
The most important point is to accept yourself and stand on your two feet.
Do not expect the world to look bright, if you habitually wear gray-brown glasses.
As long as your going to be thinking anyway, think big.
Without some goals and some efforts to reach it, no man can live.
He who obtains has little. He who scatters has much.
Myths which are believed in tend to become true.
The foot feels the foot when it feels the ground.
Not what we have but what we enjoy constitutes our abundance.
It is never too late to be what you might have been.
The beginning is always today.
In the long run we get no more than we have been willing to risk giving.
Self-trust is the first secret of success.
Don't look back. Something might be gaining on you.
Look back over the past, with its changing empires that rose and fell, and you can foresee the future, too.
A life spent making mistakes is not only more honourable, but more useful than a life spent doing nothing.
Men are disturbed not by things, but by the view which they take of them.
Imagination disposes of everything; it creates beauty, justice, and happiness, which are everything in this world.
Happiness is a Swedish sunset, it is there for all, but most of us look the other way and lose it.
A smile is a light in the window of your face to show your heart is at home.
Look forward to spring as a time when you can start to see what nature has to offer once again.
Trust your own instinct. Your mistakes might as well be your own, instead of someone elses.
The least movement is of importance to all nature. The entire ocean is affected by a pebble.
I am always doing that which I can not do, in order that I may learn how to do it.
Men in general judge more from appearances than from reality. All men have eyes, but few have the gift of penetration.
You may only be someone in the world, but to someone else, you may be the world.
Every artist dips his brush in his own soul, and paints his own nature into his pictures.
If you take each challenge one step at a time, with faith in every footstep, your strength and understanding will increase.
Happiness cannot be travelled to, owned, earned, worn or consumed. Happiness is the spiritual experience of living every minute with love, grace and gratitude.
Everyone should carefully observe which way his heart draws him, and then choose that way with all his strength.
When we quit thinking primarily about ourselves and our own self-preservation, we undergo a truly heroic transformation of consciousness.
Do not give your attention to what others do or fail to do; give it to what you do or fail to do.
Follow effective action with quiet reflection. From the quiet reflection will come even more effective action.
Life's challenges are not supposed to paralyze you, they're supposed to help you discover who you are.
There is one thing you have got to learn about our movement. Three people are better than no people.
Happiness is a perfume you cannot pour on others without getting a few drops on yourself.
It is not the mistake that has the most power, instead, it is learning from the mistake to advance your own attributes.
The amount of happiness that you have depends on the amount of freedom you have in your heart.
Your vision will become clear only when you look into your heart. Who looks outside, dreams. Who looks inside, awakens.
Yesterday is history. Tomorrow is a mystery. And today? Today is a gift. That is why we call it the present.
The way we communicate with others and with ourselves ultimately determines the quality of our lives.
Sometimes it is better to lose and do the right thing than to win and do the wrong thing.
Let us always meet each other with smile, for the smile is the beginning of love.
A bend in the road is not the end of the road...unless you fail to make the turn.
We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, then, is not an act, but a habit.
Living at risk is jumping off the cliff and building your wings on the way down.
In the depth of winter, I finally learned that there was within me an invincible summer.
Wit lies in recognizing the resemblance among things which differ and the difference between things which are alike.
A failure is a man who has blundered but is not capable of cashing in on the experience.
I cannot give you the formula for success, but I can give you the formula for failure: which is: Try to please everybody.
One who asks a question is a fool for five minutes; one who does not ask a question remains a fool forever.
The power of intuitive understanding will protect you from harm until the end of your days.
The best thing about the future is that it only comes one day at a time.
We have two ears and one mouth so that we can listen twice as much as we speak.
Fear of failure is one attitude that will keep you at the same point in your life.
Friends are those rare people who ask how we are and then wait to hear the answer.
If we learn to open our hearts, anyone, including the people who drive us crazy, can be our teacher.
People grow through experience if they meet life honestly and courageously. This is how character is built.
A hero is no braver than an ordinary man, but he is braver five minutes longer.
While we try to teach our children all about life, our children teach us what life is all about.
When you dance, your purpose is not to get to a certain place on the floor. It's to enjoy each step along the way.
Genuine love should first be directed at oneself, if we do not love ourselves, how can we love others?
The Creator has not given you a longing to do that which you have no ability to do.
It's so simple to be wise. Just think of something stupid to say and then don't say it.
Consider that not only do negative thoughts and emotions destroy our experience of peace, they also undermine our health.
Until you make peace with who you are, you will never be content with what you have.
No one saves us but ourselves. No one can and no one may. We ourselves must walk the path.
The moment one gives close attention to anything, it becomes a mysterious, awesome, indescribably magnificent world in itself.
Happiness is when what you think, what you say, and what you do are in harmony.
The greatest antidote to insecurity and the sense of fear is compassion, it brings one back to the basis of one's inner strength
Courage is the discovery that you may not win, and trying when you know you can lose.
To be thoughtful and kind only takes a few seconds compared to the timeless hurt caused by one rude gesture.
The purpose of learning is growth, and our minds, unlike our bodies, can continue growing as we continue to live.
When you realize how perfect everything is you will tilt your head back and laugh at the sky.
For every failure, there's an alternative course of action. You just have to find it. When you come to a roadblock, take a detour.
It is surprising what a man can do when he has to, and how little most men will do when they don't have to.
To be aware of a single shortcoming in oneself is more useful than to be aware of a thousand in someone else.
Nobody made a greater mistake than he who did nothing because he could do only a little.
Constant kindness can accomplish much. As the sun makes ice melt, kindness causes misunderstanding, mistrust, and hostility to evaporate.
The greatest minds are capable of the greatest vices as well as of the greatest virtues.
A man should look for what is, and not for what he thinks should be.
Difficulties are meant to rouse, not discourage. The human spirit is to grow strong by conflict.
If you have no respect for your own values how can you be worthy of respect from others.
Some people are always grumbling because roses have thorns; I am thankful that thorns have roses.
To choose what is difficult all ones days, as if it were easy, that is faith.
Ability is what you're capable of doing. Motivation determines what you do.Attitude determines how well you do it.
Do not be embarrassed by your mistakes. Nothing can teach us better than our understanding of them. This is one of the best ways of self-education.
Thousands of candles can be lighted from a single candle, and the life of the candle will not be shortened. Happiness never decreases by being shared.
I care not so much what I am to others as what I am to myself. I will be rich by myself, and not by borrowing.
Know that although in the eternal scheme of things you are small, you are also unique and irreplaceable, as are all your fellow humans everywhere in the world.
To do all that one is able to do, is to be a man; to do all that one would like to do, is to be a god.
If you let go a little, you will have a little peace. If you let go a lot, you will have a lot of peace.
There is no need for temples, no need for complicated philosophies. My brain and my heart are my temples; my philosophy is kindness.
The spirit, the will to win, and the will to excel, are the things that endure. These qualities are so much more important than the events that occur.
Man is not sum of what he has already, but rather the sum of what he does not yet have, of what he could have.
Don't believe what your eyes are telling you. All they show is limitation. Look with your understanding, find out what you already know, and you'll see the way to fly.
I believe that we are solely responsible for our choices, and we have to accept the consequences of every deed, word, and thought throughout our lifetime.
Wishes can be your best avenue of getting what you want when you turn wishes into action. Action moves your wish to the forefront from thought to reality.
To understand the heart and mind of a person, look not at what he has already achieved, but at what he aspires to do.
I am of the opinion that my life belongs to the community, and as long as I live it is my privilege to do for it whatever I can.
Imagination is more important than knowledge. For while knowledge defines all we currently know and understand, imagination points to all we might yet discover and create.
When you see a good person, think of becoming like him. When you see someone not so good, reflect on your own weak points.
If one is estranged from oneself, then one is estranged from others too. If one is out of touch with oneself, then one cannot touch others.
Most of the important things in the world have been accomplished by people who have kept on trying when there seemed to be no hope at all.
You may say Im a dreamer, but Im not the only one, I hope someday you will join us, and the world will live as one.
Happiness is as a butterfly which, when pursued, is always beyond our grasp, but which if you will sit down quietly, may alight upon you.
He who experiences the unity of life sees his own Self in all beings, and all beings in his own Self, and looks on everything with an impartial eye.
In the sky, there is no distinction of east and west; people create distinctions out of their own minds and then believe them to be true.
You cannot change anything in your life with intention alone, which can become a watered-down, occasional hope that you'll get to tomorrow. Intention without action is useless.
Before you can inspire with emotion, you must be swamped with it yourself. Before you can move their tears, your own must flow. To convince them, you must yourself believe.
The greatest discovery of our generation is that human beings can alter their lives by altering their attitudes of mind. As you think, so shall you be.
If one advances confidently in the direction of his dream, and endeavours to live the life which he had imagines, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours.
The secret of joy in work is contained in one word, excellence. To know how to do something well is to enjoy it.
When you meet someone better than yourself, turn your thoughts to becoming his equal. When you meet someone not as good as you are, look within and examine your own self.
We must overcome the notion that we must be regular. It robs you of the chance to be extraordinary and leads you to the mediocre.
Most of our obstacles would melt away if, instead of cowering before them, we should make up our minds to walk boldly through them.
Everything can be taken from a man but ... the last of the human freedoms, to choose ones attitude in any given set of circumstances, to choose ones own way.
It is better to have enough ideas for some of them to be wrong, than to be always right by having no ideas at all.
Character is like a tree and reputation like a shadow. The shadow is what we think of it; the tree is the real thing.
By letting it go it all gets done. The world is won by those who let it go. But when you try and try. The world is beyond the winning.
I am like a falling star who has finally found her place next to another in a lovely constellation, where we will sparkle in the heavens forever.
Not every difficult and dangerous thing is suitable for training, but only that which is conducive to success in achieving the object of our effort.
We are not animals. We are not a product of what has happened to us in our past. We have the power of choice.
The most dangerous way to lose time is not to spend it having fun, but to spend it doing fake work. When you spend time having fun, you know you're being self-indulgent.
Thousands of candles can be lit from a single, and the life of the candle will not be shortened. Happiness never decreases by being shared.
A lot of times people look at the negative side of what they feel they can't do. I always look on the positive side of what I can do.
Without passion man is a mere latent force and possibility, like the flint which awaits the shock of the iron before it can give forth its spark.
Love at first sight is easy to understand; its when two people have been looking at each other for a lifetime that it becomes a miracle.
With courage you will dare to take risks, have the strength to be compassionate, and the wisdom to be humble. Courage is the foundation of integrity.
The right way is not always the popular and easy way. Standing for right when it is unpopular is a true test of moral character.
I prefer to be true to myself, even at the hazard of incurring the ridicule of others, rather than to be false, and to incur my own abhorrence.
No pessimist ever discovered the secrets of the stars, or sailed to an uncharted land, or opened a new heaven to the human spirit.
When you arise in the morning, think of what a precious privilege it is to be alive, to breathe, to think, to enjoy, to love.
Character cannot be developed in ease and quiet. Only through experience of trial and suffering can the soul be strengthened, vision cleared, ambition inspired, and success achieved.
Although there may be tragedy in your life, there's always a possibility to triumph. It doesn't matter who you are, where you come from. The ability to triumph begins with you. Always.
You must train your intuition, you must trust the small voice inside you which tells you exactly what to say, what to decide.
Accept the things to which fate binds you, and love the people with whom fate brings you together, but do so with all your heart.
Let us resolve to be masters, not the victims, of our history, controlling our own destiny without giving way to blind suspicions and emotions.
Nothing in life is to be feared, it is only to be understood. Now is the time to understand more, so that we may fear less.
Parents can only give good advice or put them on the right paths, but the final forming of a persons character lies in their own hands.
Adversity isn't set against you to fail; adversity is a way to build your character so that you can succeed over and over again through perseverance.
If you break your neck, if you have nothing to eat, if your house is on fire, then you got a problem. Everything else is inconvenience.
Success is not the key to happiness. Happiness is the key to success. If you love what you are doing, you will be successful.
If A is success in life, then A equals x plus y plus z. Work is x; y is play; and z is keeping your mouth shut.
My advice to you is not to inquire why or whither, but just enjoy your ice cream while its on your plate, that's my philosophy.
Conflict is the gadfly of thought. It stirs us to observation and memory. It instigates to invention. It shocks us out of sheeplike passivity, and sets us at noting and contriving.
He who conquers others is strong; He who conquers himself is mighty.
Anything you really want, you can attain, if you really go after it.
Arriving at one point is the starting point to another.
The foolish man seeks happiness in the distance, the wise grows it under his feet.
The greatest part of our happiness depends on our dispositions, not our circumstances.
It is only possible to live happily ever after on a day to day basis.
A man sees in the world what he carries in his heart.
Action may not always bring happiness, but there is no happiness without action.
Believe deep down in your heart that you're destined to do great things.
Sooner or later, those who win are those who think they can.
The only limit to your impact is your imagination and commitment.
You are special, you are unique, you are the best!
Four steps to achievement: Plan purposefully. Prepare prayerfully. Proceed positively. Pursue persistently.
To know oneself is to study oneself in action with another person.
We must not allow ourselves to become like the system we oppose.
Smile, breathe and go slowly.
Reality is merely an illusion, albeit a very persistent one.
When you come to the end of your rope, tie a knot and hang on.
Always be mindful of the kindness and not the faults of others.
Everything that irritates us about others can lead us to an understanding of ourselves.
When fate hands us a lemon, lets try to make lemonade.
The weak can never forgive. Forgiveness is the attribute of the strong.
A man is great by deeds, not by birth.
Success is getting what you want. Happiness is wanting what you get.
Put your future in good hands, your own.
Truth isn't all about what actually happens but more about how what has happened is interpreted.
A good rest is half the work.
Don't judge each day by the harvest you reap but by the seeds that you plant.
Small opportunities are often the beginning of great enterprises.
To be tested is good. The challenged life may be the best therapist.
Take heed: you do not find what you do not seek.
Happiness is the reward we get for living to the highest right we know.
Be slow of tongue and quick of eye.
Freedom is not worth having if it does not connote freedom to err.
I have always thought the actions of men the best interpreters of their thoughts.
To dare is to lose ones footing momentarily. To not dare is to lose oneself.
No day in which you learn something is a complete loss.
Peace cannot be kept by force. It can only be achieved by understanding.
Real success is finding your lifework in the work that you love.
Better than a thousand hollow words, is one word that brings peace.
All the flowers of all the tomorrows are in the seeds of today.
Your sacred space is where you can find yourself again and again.
As you think, so shall you become.
In seed time learn, in harvest teach, in winter enjoy.
Happiness does not come from having much, but from being attached to little.
Every gift from a friend is a wish for your happiness.
Go put your creed into the deed. Nor speak with double tongue.
The wisest men follow their own direction.
Hope arouses, as nothing else can arouse, a passion for the possible.
Everything has beauty, but not everyone sees it.
Nothing ever goes away until it has taught us what we need to know.
When you learn, teach. When you get, give.
Only when we are no longer afraid do we begin to live.
If you smile when no one else is around, you really mean it.
Love is the only force capable of transforming an enemy into friend.
In all chaos there is a cosmos, in all disorder a secret order.
A man is not where he lives but where he loves.
The price of greatness is responsibility.
Decision is a risk rooted in the courage of being free.
Your mind will answer most questions if you learn to relax and wait for the answer.
The world doesn't happen to you it happens from you.
We cannot solve our problems with the same thinking we used when we created them.
More powerful than the will to win is the courage to begin.
Learning is finding out what you already know.
Saying thank you is more than good manners. It is good spirituality.
Silence is a source of great strength.
Joy is the best makeup.
There is no great genius without some touch of madness.
A jug fills drop by drop.
Until you make peace with who you are, you'll never be content with what you have.
We aim above the mark to hit the mark.
Being angry never solves anything.
All men who have achieved great things have been great dreamers.
Mediocrity knows nothing higher than itself, but talent instantly recognizes genius.
Where all think alike, no one thinks very much.
Everything that exists is in a manner the seed of that which will be.
Be less curious about people and more curious about ideas.
The heart has eyes which the brain knows nothing of.
Only those who dare to fail greatly can ever achieve greatly.
Lose an hour in the morning, and you will spend all day looking for it.
Mistakes are always forgivable, if one has the courage to admit them.
Go to your bosom: Knock there, and ask your heart what it doth know.
Happiness mainly comes from our own attitude, rather than from external factors.
If you do not change direction, you may end up where you are heading.
What we see is mainly what we look for.
Stay away from what might have been and look at what will be.
Act as if what you do makes a difference. It does.
Passion creates the desire for more and action fuelled by passion creates a future.
Do good by stealth, and blush to find it fame.
Opportunity often comes disguised in the form of misfortune, or temporary defeat.
Don't talk about what you have done or what you are going to do.
Most powerful is he who has himself in his own power.
We don't stop playing because we grow old; we grow old because we stop playing.
Experience can only be gained by doing not by thinking or dreaming.
Always tell the truth. That way, you don't have to remember what you said.
From wonder into wonder existence opens.
He who fears being conquered is sure of defeat.
Life is what happens while you are making other plans.
Doing what you love is the cornerstone of having abundance in your life.
Kindness is the golden chain by which society is bound together.
You need chaos in your soul to give birth to a dancing star.
It can't be spring if your heart is filled with past failures.
No yesterdays are ever wasted for those who give themselves to today.
There are no failures, just experiences and your reactions to them.
Action is the foundational key to all success.
What is necessary to change a person is to change his awareness of himself.
Positive thinking will let you do everything better than negative thinking will.
We shall never know all the good that a simple smile can do.
Nothing is so strong as gentleness. Nothing is so gentle as real strength.
Imagination is not a talent of some men but is the health of every man.
We must embrace pain and burn it as fuel for our journey.
Don't wait for people to be friendly. Show them how.
A gem cannot be polished without friction, nor a man perfected without trials.
Each day can be one of triumph if you keep up your interests.
The place to improve the world is first in one's own heart and head and hands.
The pessimist sees difficulty in every opportunity. The optimist sees the opportunity in every difficulty.
Winners have simply formed the habit of doing things losers don't like to do.
Nature is a mutable cloud which is always and never the same.
Life is what you make of it. Always has been, always will be.
Worry often gives a small thing a big shadow.
I want you to be everything that's you, deep at the center of your being.
We know what we are, but know not what we may be.
Freedom is what you do with what's been done to you.
The truth which has made us free will in the end make us glad also.
He who has imagination without learning has wings but no feet.
Whoso loves, believes the impossible.
It isn't where you come from, it's where you're going that counts.
The greatest obstacle to connecting with our joy is resentment.
When anger use your energy to do something productive.
We are all something, but none of us are everything.
If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough.
He who lives in harmony with himself lives in harmony with the world.
He who knows himself is enlightened.
Build a better mousetrap and the world will beat a path to your door.
As our case is new, we must think and act anew.
If you can't feed a hundred people, then feed just one.
In three words I can sum up everything Ive learned about life: it goes on.
Don't let today's disappointments cast a shadow on tomorrow's dreams.
You always succeed in producing a result.
Everything you are against weakens you. Everything you are for empowers you.
As we risk ourselves, we grow. Each new experience is a risk.
Who we are never changes. Who we think we are does.
The final proof of greatness lies in being able to endure criticism without resentment.
An invasion of armies can be resisted, but not an idea whose time has come.
Never let lack of money interfere with having fun.
Excellence is not a skill. It is an attitude.
People may doubt what you say, but they will believe what you do.
The most formidable weapon against errors of every kind is reason.
It's important to know that words don't move mountains. Work, exacting work moves mountains.
Beware of missing chances; otherwise it may be altogether too late some day.
You only lose what you cling to.
Life is a succession of moments. To live each one is to succeed.
Most of the shadows of life are caused by standing in our own sunshine.
Good actions give strength to ourselves and inspire good actions in others.
I know but one freedom and that is the freedom of the mind.
In the middle of every difficulty lies opportunity.
Every human being is the author of his own health or disease.
When in doubt, tell the truth.
Every great advance in science has issued from a new audacity of the imagination.
The ladder of success is never crowded at the top.
He who has health has hope, and he who has hope has everything.
All great achievements require time.
No person is your friend who demands your silence, or denies your right to grow.
Impossibilities are merely things which we have not yet learned.
Vision without action is a daydream. Action without vision is a nightmare.
The Superior Man is aware of Righteousness, the inferior man is aware of advantage.
He who angers you conquers you.
I never worry about action, but only inaction.
No man is free who is not master of himself.
Those that know, do. Those that understand, teach.
If we are not fully ourselves, truly in the present moment, we miss everything.
No act of kindness, no matter how small, is ever wasted.
Every man is a volume if you know how to read him.
The difficulties of life are intended to make us better, not bitter.
Quality means doing it right when no one is looking.
Change your words. Change your world.
Great acts are made up of small deeds.
The odds of hitting your target go up dramatically when you aim at it.
Open minds lead to open doors.
They can do all because they think they can.
You have to think anyway, so why not think big?
On every thorn, delightful wisdom grows, In every rill a sweet instruction flows.
Your body is precious. It is our vehicle for awakening. Treat it with care.
The one who always loses, is the only person who gets the reward.
The future is completely open, and we are writing it moment to moment.
Each time we face a fear, we gain strength, courage, and confidence in the doing.
Ask yourself the secret of your success. Listen to your answer, and practice it.
Don't frown because you never know who is falling in love with your smile.
Trust your hunches. They're usually based on facts filed away just below the conscious level.
Nothing is at last sacred but the integrity of your own mind.
Listen to your intuition. It will tell you everything you need to know.
The personal life deeply lived always expands into truths beyond itself.
Whenever something negative happens to you, there is a deep lesson concealed within it.
What is not started today is never finished tomorrow.
Our kindness may be the most persuasive argument for that which we believe.
Chaos is inherent in all compounded things. Strive on with diligence.
Be sure you put your feet in the right place, then stand firm.
Nothing great was ever achieved without enthusiasm.
The meaning I picked, the one that changed my life: Overcome fear, behold wonder.
Know how to listen, and you will profit even from those who talk badly.
A man is not old as long as he is seeking something.
The time you think you're missing, misses you too.
Life is not measured by the breaths you take, but by its breathtaking moments.
Much wisdom often goes with fewer words.
If you love life, don't waste time, for time is what life is made up of.
Imagination is the living power and prime agent of all human perception.
It is impossible to feel grateful and depressed in the same moment.
Progress always involves risks. You can't steal second base and keep your foot on first.
Liberty, taking the word in its concrete sense, consists in the ability to choose.
A thing well said will be wit in all languages.
Always do your best. What you plant now, you will harvest later.
My mama always said: life's like a box of chocolate, you never know what you gonna get.
We are the leaves of one branch, the drops of one sea, the flowers of one garden.
If you come to a fork in the road, take it.
It is not only for what we do that we are held responsible, but also for what we do not do.
Nobody can do everything, but everybody can do something.
The world has the habit of making room for the man whose actions show that he knows where he is going.
You cannot step twice into the same river, for other waters are continually flowing in.
Excellence is to do a common thing in an uncommon way.
No matter how hard the past, you can always begin again.
I begin with an idea and then it becomes something else.
Whoever is happy will make others happy, too.
Your work is to discover your work and then with all your heart to give yourself to it.
It's not what happens to you, but how you react to it that matters.
Take it easy, but take it.
Never apologize for showing feeling. When you do so, you apologize for truth.
Take rest; a field that has rested gives a bountiful crop.
Age does not protect you from love. But love, to some extent, protects you from age.
Do what you can. Want what you have. Be who you are.
There are people who have money and people who are rich.
Why worry about tomorrow, when today is all we have?
Speak when you are angry and you will make the best speech you will ever regret.
Things do not change, we change.
The exercise of an extraordinary gift is the supremest pleasure in life.
Sometimes the most important thing in a whole day is the rest we take between two deep breaths.
Forgiveness is choosing to love. It is the first skill of self-giving love.
To ensure good health: eat lightly, breathe deeply, live moderately, cultivate cheerfulness, and maintain an interest in life.
Most smiles are started by another smile.
Nothing is softer or more flexible than water, yet nothing can resist it.
It is difficult to achieve a spirit of genuine cooperation as long as people remain indifferent to the feelings and happiness of others.
Experience keeps a dear school, but fools will learn in no other.
We can only be said to be alive in those moments when our hearts are conscious of our treasures.
Fine words and an insinuating appearance are seldom associated with true virtue
We do not quit playing because we grow old, we grow old because we quit playing.
You can't choose up sides on a round world.
Kindness is the language which the deaf can hear and the blind can see.
I may not know everything, but everything is not known yet anyway.
If we could see the miracle of a single flower clearly, our whole life would change.
Without this playing with fantasy no creative work has ever yet come to birth. The debt we owe to the play of the imagination is incalculable.
You cannot travel the path until you have become the path itself.
Keep your eyes on the stars and your feet on the ground.
I am not afraid of tomorrow, for I have seen yesterday and I love today.
Limitations live only in our minds. But if we use our imaginations, our possibilities become limitless.
When you lose, don't lose the lesson.
If you want a thing done well, do it yourself.
The greatest barrier to success is the fear of failure.
Sunshine is delicious, rain is refreshing, wind braces us up, snow is exhilarating; there is really no such thing as bad weather, only different kinds of good weather.
If you aren't going all the way, why go at all?
Our greatest glory is not in never falling, but in rising every time we fall.
The beginning of wisdom is found in doubting; by doubting we come to the question, and by seeking we may come upon the truth.
If I could reach up and hold a star for every time you've made me smile, the entire evening sky would be in the palm of my hand.
We are shaped by our thoughts; we become what we think. When the mind is pure, joy follows like a shadow that never leaves.
Stay committed to your decisions, but stay flexible in your approach.
An optimist is a person who sees a green light everywhere, while the pessimist sees only the red spotlight... The truly wise person is colour-blind.
What separates the winners from the losers is how a person reacts to each new twist of fate.
Each man has his own vocation; his talent is his call. There is one direction in which all space is open to him.
Just as a flower, which seems beautiful has color but no perfume, so are the fruitless words of a man who speaks them but does them not.
To change ones life, start immediately, do it flamboyantly, no exceptions.
As we express our gratitude, we must never forget that the highest appreciation is not to utter words, but to live by them.
The world cares very little about what a man or woman knows; it is what a man or woman is able to do that counts.
The steeper the mountain the harder the climb the better the view from the finishing line
Aim for success, not perfection. Never give up your right to be wrong, because then you will lose the ability to learn new things and move forward with your life.
When I let go of what I am, I become what I might be.
Transformation does not start with some one else changing you; transformation is an inner self reworking of what you are now to what you will be.
Time is not a measure the length of a day or month or year but more a measure of what you have accomplished.
Being awake in the present moment means that the future is existing as an ever-present livin potential right now. With this awareness of the future, your consciousness expands and theres  sense of being intensely awake. Why? Because your conscious, living relationship with th future begins to enlighten your relationship to the present moment. Enlighten it with consciousconscienc and purpose. And when this conscience has been awakened, theres a tremendou care about now, about this moment, because of your awareness of the future. So that means tha your active, participatory relationship with the present moment becomes an expression of you care for the future.
Ring the bells that still can rin Forget your perfect offerin There is a crack, a crack in everythin Thats how the light gets in.
Responsibility for the Future: If we want to change the world in a significant way, if we'r serious about creating a better future for us all, then we have to face the fact that the only wa it's going to happen is the only way it's ever happened: through the evolution of consciousnes itself. And for the universe to evolve at the level of consciousness, you and I have to be the one to make sure it happens. We have to be the ones to create the future. There's no one else who i going to save us. To accept responsibility for the future means we know without a doubt that it i on our own shoulders--each and every one of us--to create that future right now. And now mean NOW. Those of us at the leading edge have to stop waiting, stop hiding, and stop pretending. W have to be the ones to take this leap because there literally isn't anyone else to do it. We have t be the ones to carry this process forward at the deepest and highest level, to consciously evolv in the biggest way possible for our collective salvation and transformation.
Its me who is my enemy. Me who beats me up. Me who makes the monsters. Me who strip my confidence.
The point to remember is that what the government gives it must first take away.
If we learn the right lessons, we will be able to lead not just faster lives, but better ones too.
But what is Freedom? Rightly understood. A universal license to be good.
Commonsense in an uncommon degree is what the world calls wisdom.
If people could learn from history, what lessons it might teach us! But passion and party blin our eyes, and the light which experience gives is a lantern on the stern, which shines only on th waves behind us!
Wisdom and understanding can only become the possession of individual men by travellin the old road of observation, attention, perseverance, and industry.
'Moral Intelligence' isn't acquired only by memorisation of rules and regulations, by dint o abstract classroom discussion or kitchen compliance. We grow morally as a consequence o learning how to be with others, how to behave in this world, a learning prompted by taking t heart what we have seen and heard. The child is a witness; the child is an ever-attentive witnes of grown-up morality - or lack there-of; the child looks and looks for clues as to how one ough to behave, and finds them galore as we parents and teachers go about making choices, addressin people, showing in action our rock-bottom assumptions, desires, and values, and thereby telling these young observers much more than we may realize.
Common sense is perhaps the most equally divided, but surely the most underdeveloped talen in the world.
Success is a journey - not a destination.
Hope is a vigorous principle; it is furnished with light and heat to advise and execute; it set the head and heart to work, and animates a person to their utmost. And thus, by perpetuall pushing and assurance, it puts a difficulty out of countenance, and makes a seeming impossibilit give way.
People who have nothing to do are quickly tired by their own company.
Success is the sum of small efforts, repeated day in and day out.
The great successful people of the world ... think ahead and creat their mental picture, and then go to work materializing that picture in al its details, filling in here, adding a little there, altering this a bi and that a bit but steadily building -- steadily building.
Perfect freedom is reserved for the person who lives by their own work and in that work doe what they want to do.
We only carry to our graves the inner integrity of our efforts.
The beauty of empowering others is that your own power is not diminished in the process.
Ambition makes the same mistake concerning power, that avarice makes a to wealth. It begins by accumulating it as a means to happiness, an finishes by continuing to accumulate it as an end.
Great minds must be ready not only to take opportunities but to make them.
No person is wise enough, nor good enough, to be trusted with unlimited power.
There are three modes of bearing the ills of life: by indifference, by philosophy, and b religion.
There is a paradox in pride: it makes some people ridiculous, but prevents others fro becoming so.
There is this difference between happiness and wisdom; those that thin of themselves as the happiest, really is so; but they that think themselve the wisest, are generally the greatest fool.
The university is the only institution in Western society whose busines it is to search for and transmit truth regardless of all competing o conflicting pressures and demands; pressures for immediate usefulness, fo social approval, pressures to serve the special interests of government,  class, a professional group, a race, a faith, even a nation.
Faith gives the courage to live and do. Scientists, with thei disciplined thinking need a basis for the good life, for aspirations, fo courage to do great deeds. They need a faith to live by. The hope of th worlds in those who have such faith and who use the methods of science t make visions become real. Visions and hope and faith are not part o science. They are beyond the nature that science knows. Of such is th religion that gives meaning to life.
Ability and moral excellence, rather than birth, fitted a person for leadership.
A person asked Confucius: 'What surprises you most about mankind.' An he answered: 'They lost their health to make money and then lose thei money to restore their health. By thinking anxiously about the future, the forget the present, such that they live neither for the present not th future and they live as if they will never die, and they die as they ha never lived....
A person of humanity is one who, in seeking to establish themself, find a foothold for others and who, desiring attainment for themselves, help others to attain.
At fifteen I wanted to learn By thirty I had achieved something At forty I was no longer confused At fifty I understood the role decreed for me At sixty I could listen well and understand Only by seventy was I competent to act freel without violating what was right.
A wise person looks for everything inside themselves; a foolish person seeks it in others.
By three methods we may learn wisdom: first by reflection, which is the noblest; second, b imitation, which is the easiest; and third by experience, which is the bitterest.
Choose a job you love, and you will never have to work a day in your life.
Complacency is a great enemy.
Do not be concerned that you have no position, be concerned that you have what it takes t merit a position. Do not be concerned that no one recognises you, seek that which is worthy o recognition.
Do not impose on others what you yourself do not desire.
For one word a person is often deemed to be wise, and for one word the are often deemed to be foolish. We should be careful indeed what w say.
If all is right with the family, then all is right in the world.
If one learns from others but does not think, one will be bewildered. If, on the other hand, on thinks but does not learn from others, one will be in peril..
If the ruler sets a good example, the people will be easy to manage.
If you find a job you really like, you will never have to work again.
Life is really simple, but people insist on making it complicated.
People of integrity live in harmony with others regardless o conflicting opinions. Small-minded people, despite sharing the sam opinions, cannot live in harmony with one another.
People of principle are always bold, but those who are bold are not always people o principle.
Recompense injury with justice, and recompense kindness with kindness.
Restrain your spirit when angry Beware of your words whe talking without thinking Pay attention to errors when bus Be prudent with money when prosperous.
Study the past, if you would divine the future.
The person of integrity knows how to work for the public good; the inferior person bother only about personal profit.
There is no need to worry about not being appreciated. What really gives cause for concern i when we do not appreciate others.
The superior person does not mind being in office; all they mind abou if they have the qualities that entitle them to office. They do not min failing to get recognition; they are too busy doing the things tha entitled them to recognition.
The truly great person does not strive to obtain honours. They strive to deserve them.
The way of the superior person is threefold: Virtuous, they are fre from anxieties; wise, they are free from perplexities; bold, they are fre from fear.
The Wise Ma  The wise man sets his person at rest before he moves  he composes his mind before he speaks  he makes his relations firm before he asks for something  By attending to these three matters  the wise man gains complete security  But if a man is brusque in his moments  others will not co-operate  If he is agitated in his words  they awaken no echo in others  If he asks for something without having first established relation  it will not be given to him  If no one is with him  those who would harm him draw near.
Those who learn but do not think are lost; those that think but do not learn are in danger.
 Those who merely know the right principles are not equal to those who love them.
Those who wish to secure the good of others have already secured their own.
Through the study of old things we learn something new.
To be able to practice five things everywhere under heaven constitute perfect virtue .... gravity, generosity of soul, sincerity, earnestness and kindness.
 To be wronged is nothing unless you continue to remember it.
To know we know what we know, and that we know not, what we do not know, tha is true knowledge.
To put the world right in order, we must first put the nation in order; to put the nation in order we must first put the family in order; to put the family in order, we must first cultivate ou personal life; we must first set our hearts right.
True goodness is loving your fellow men.
Without learning, the wise become foolish; by learning the foolish become wise.
TseKing asked about the true person. The Master said, 'They do no preach what they preach till they have practised what they preach.'
TseKung asked 'Is there one word which may serve as a rule of practic for all one's life? The Master said: 'It is the word shu - reciprocity: Do not do to other what you do not want them to do to you.
When knowledge is extended the will becomes sincere When the will is sincere the mind is correct When the mind is correct the clan is harmonised When the clan is harmonised the country is well governed When the country is well governed there will be peace throughout the land Confucius: (The Great Learning, 6th century B.C.)
When you meet someone better than yourself, turn your thoughts t becoming their equal. When you meet someone not as good as you are, loo within and examine your own self.
Who heeds not the future will find sorrow close at hand.
Wisdom, compassion and courage -- these are three universally recognise moral qualities of people. It matters not in what way they come to th exercise of these moral qualities, the result is one and the same. Whe people understand the nature and use of these three moral qualities the will then understand how to put in order their personal conduct an character, they will understand how to govern others. When they understan how to govern others, they will then understand how to govern nations an empires.
Without recognising the ordinances of heaven, it is impossible to be a superior person.
Worry not that no one knows you, seek to be worth knowing.
Defer not till tomorrow to be wis Tomorrows sun to thee may never rise.
 Music hath charms to soothe a savage breast To soften rocks, or bend a knotted oak I've read that things inanimate have moved And as with living souls have been inform' By magic numbers and persuasive sound.
Uncertainty and expectation are the joys of life. Security is an insipid thing, and th overtaking and possessing of a wish, discovers the folly of the chase.
History teaches us that people behave wisely when they have exhausted all othe alternatives.
Civilization is an active deposit which is formed by the combustion of the Present with th Past.
Life can knock you us down flat. Its our measure of resilience that determines whether or no well keep dreaming and reaching for our dreams.
All ambitions are lawful except those which climb upwards on the miseries or credulities o mankind.
I remember my youth and the feeling that will never come back any mor -- the feeling that I could last for ever, outlast the sea, the earth, an all men; the deceitful feeling that lures us on to joys, to perils, t love, to vain effort -- to death; the triumphant conviction of strength the heat of life in the handful of dust, the glow in the heart that wit every year grows dim, grows cold, grows small, and expires -- and expires too soon, too soon -- before life itself.
The mind of man is capable of anything  because everything is in it, all the past as well as al the future.
The constant use of long words, involved sentences, proves two things: (1) that your learned, and (2) that youre ignorant of how best to communicate with people.
Better build schoolhouses for children than cells for adults.
We live and we learn, as much by unconscious absorption and imitation as by systemati effort.
Faith moves mountains, but you have to keep pushing while you are praying.
 'Why not' is a slogan for an interesting life.
All growth depends upon activity. There is no development physically o intellectually without effort, and effort means work. Work is not a curse it is a prerogative of intelligence, the only means to adulthood, and th measure of civilization.
Knowledge comes, but wisdom lingers.
No person was ever honoured for what they received. Honour has been the reward for wha they gave.
Nothing in the world can take the place of persistence. Talent will not nothing is more common than unsuccessful men with talent. Genius will not unrewarded genius is almost a proverb. Education will not; the world i full of educated failures. Persistence and determination alone ar omnipotent.
Prosperity is only an instrument to be used, not a deity to be worshipped.
Prosperity cannot be divorced from humanity.
The artist is not a special kind of person, but every one is a special kind of artist.
These days people seek knowledge, not wisdom. Knowledge is of the past; wisdom is of th future.
The strength of a wide-band professional network is that it gives access to deep and taci knowledge across a range of areas that you could never hope to touch, understand or gain acces to.
People with a negative image of ageing dont live as long as those with a positive one  you attitude to your future says more about you than anything else.
 Life never stops. The torment of men will be eternal, unless th function of creating and acting and changing, living intensely through eac day, be considered an eternal joy.
It should be our purpose in lif to see that each of us makes such a contributio as will enable us to stay that we individually and collectively are a part of the answe to the world proble and not part of the problem itself.
If we wish to grow old gracefully we must commence by being young cheerfully.
And though I ... understand all the mysteries, and all knowledge; an though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have no love, I am nothing.
The written law brings death, but the Spirit gives life.
Once we start thinking serious about the future, we gain enormous powe over the future. First, we begin to recognise that we have lots of choice about what sort of future we can shape for ourselves. Second, we can se long term goals and plan effectively so we can reach them. So thinkin about the future is a powerful tool for achieving long-term success in ou careers and other aspects of our lives.
No nation ever had an army large enough to guarantee it against attack in time of peace o insure it victory in time of war.
A word to the wise aint necessary  its the stupid ones that need the advice.
In order to succeed, your desire for success should be greater than your fear of failure.
Raising children is an incredibly hard and risky business in which no cumulative wisdom i gained: each generation repeats the mistakes the previous one made.
If solid happiness we prize Within our breast this jewel lies And they are fools who roam The world has nothing to bestow From our own selves our joys must flow And that dear hut, our home.
It's taken me all my life to understand that it is not necessary to understand everything.
Finding a way to live the simple life today is a person's most complicated task.
The bigger a person's head gets, the easier it is to fill their shoes.
The greatest asset of any nation is the spirit of its people, and the greatest danger that ca menace any nation is the breakdown of that spirit - the will to win and the courage to work.
You can only govern people by serving them. The rule is without exception.
Appreciation can make a day  even change a life. Your willingness to put it into words is al that is necessary.
History is a vast early warning system.
In a democracy, the individual enjoys not only the ultimate power but carries the ultimat responsibility.
Nothing clutters the soul more than remorse, resentment, recrimination Negative feelings occupy a fearsome amount of space in the mind, block ou perceptions, our prospects, our pleasures.
The most costly disease is not cancer or coronaries. The most costly disease is boredom - costly for both individuals and society.
Wisdom consists of the anticipation of consequences.
Mankind has probably done more damage to the earth in the 20th century than in all o previous human history.
You cannot give up hope  The situation is hopeless  but I might be wrong.
Doing more things faster is no substitute for doing the right things.
It takes humility to seek feedback. It takes wisdom to understand it, analyze it, an appropriately act on it.
Seek first to understand, then to be understood.
There are three constants in life  change, choice and principles.
Wisdom is your perspective on life, your sense of balance, your understanding of how th various parts and principles apply and relate to each other. It embraces judgement, discernment comprehension. It is a gestalt or oneness, and integrated wholeness.
Enjoy the present hour Be thankful for the past And neither fear nor wis Th' approaches of the last.
Life is an incurable disease.
They tell you that you'll lose your mind when you grow older What they don't tell you is that you won't miss it very much.
Existence is a strange bargain. Life owes us little; we owe it everything. The only tru happiness comes from squandering ourselves for a purpose.
Knowledge and wisdom, far from being one Have oft times no connection. Knowledge dwell In heads replete with thoughts of other men Wisdom in minds attentive to their own Knowledge is proud that he has learned so much Wisdom is humble that he know no more.
Knowledge, a rude unprofitable mass  The mere materials with which wisdom builds  Till smoothed and squared and fitted to its place  Does but encumber whom it seems to enrich  Knowledge is proud that he has learned so much  Wisdom is humble that he knows no more.
The only true happiness comes from squandering ourselves for a purpose.
When enthusiasm is inspired by reason; controlled by caution; sound i theory; practical in application; reflects confidence; spreads good cheer raises morale; inspires associates; arouses loyalty, and laughs a adversity, it is beyond price.
No one can accept responsibility in the world unless they take it firs on their doorstep. So for us in industry I can see only one sure course t follow. Call it common sense, call it policy, call it anything you like. T my mind, industry must aim for, exist for and everlastingly operate for th good of the community. The community can't ride one track and busines another. The two are inseparable, interactive and interdependent.
Jill Craigie's great passion is gardening. 'You have to look to th future in gardening' she says finally. 'It takes the curse out of old age'.
Because you care, each task will be much lighter Each burden so much easier to bear And each new morning's outlook better, brighter And each new day more blest, because you care Because you care, each joy will seem completer Each treasure doubly dear and true and rare And in my heart I'll always find it sweete To want the higher things, because you care.
The Golden Rule is of no use to you whatever unless you realize that it is your move.
To make a person happy, fill their hands with work,their heart wit affection, their mind with purpose; their memory with useful knowledge their future with hope, and their stomach with food. The devil never enter anyone except one of these rooms be vacant. Cast it out and sweep an garnish the room, and it will return with seven other devils. The only wa to be rid of it is to fill the room and take down your 'To Let' sign.
You do not succeed because you do not know what you want, or you don't want it intensel enough.
Responsibility is the thing people dread most of all. Yet it is the one thing in the world tha develops us, gives us manhood or womanhood fiber.
The centipede was happy quit  Until a toad in fu  Said, Pray, which leg goes after which?
 That worked her mind to such a pitch  She lay distracted in a ditc  Considering how to run.
One part of knowledge consists in being ignorant of such things that are not worthy of bein known.
Creative thinking is today's most prized profit-producing possession fo any individual, corporation or country. It has the capacity to change you your business and the world.
Each new development starts from something else. It does not come out o a blue sky. You make use of that which has already entered the mind .. That is the real reason for accumulating knowledge.
Only after the last tree has been cut down. Only after the last rive has been poisoned. Only after the last fish has been caught. Only then, an only then, will you find that money cannot be eaten.
Only when the last river dries u When the last tree is torn dow When the last animal is kille Only then will you understand that money cannot be eaten.
I still lived in the future -- a habit which is the death of happiness.
The real object of education is to have a person in the condition of continually askin questions.
The very purpose of existence is to reconcile the glowing opinion we hold of ourselves wit the appalling things that other people think about us.
Best Friends Poe I love you not only for wha you are, but for what I a when I am with you I love you not only for wha you have made of yourself but for what you are makin of m I love you because you hav done more than any cree could have done to make m good, and more than an fate could have done to mak me happy You have done it without  touch, without a word without a sign You have done it by being yourself Perhaps that is what being a friend means  after all.
Peace will never be achieved through defence and aggression, it will be achieved throug peace Loving relationships with others will never be achieved through defensiveness and aggression, i will be achieved through being loving Fulfilment will never be achieved through acquisition and greed, it will be achieved by doin things which are, in themselves fulfilling.
The essential nature of a democracy compels it to insist that individua power of all kinds, political, economic, or intellectual, shall not b perversely and irresponsibly exercised.
None climbs so high as those who know not whether they are going.
A person who wants to lead the orchestra must turn his back on the crowd.
Conversation is the most powerful learning technology ever invented. Conversations carr news, create meaning, foster cooperation and spark innovation. Encouraging open, hones conversation through work space design, (and organisational design) setting ground rules fo conversing productivity, and baking conversation into the corporate culture spread intellectua capital, improve cooperation, and strengthen personal relationships, as well as developing an implementing a more effective strategy.
A strange lot this, to be dropped down in a world of barbarians  men who see clearly enoug the barbarity of all ages except their own.
The trouble with facts is that there are so many of them.
What is life? It is the flash of a firefly in the night. It is th breath of a buffalo in the winter time. It is the little shadow which run across the grass and loses itself in the sunset.
Of all the virtues we can learn, no trait is more useful, more essentia for survival and more likely to improve the quality of life than th ability to transform adversity into an enjoyable challenge.
A friend is one who knows us, but loves us anyway.
We believe that while survival of the fittest may be a good workin description of the process of evolution, a government of humans shoul elevate itself to a higher order, one which fills the gaps left by chanc or a wisdom we don't understand.
Nothing in life is to be feared. It is only to be understood.
One never notices what has been done; one can only see what remains to be done.
You cannot hope to build a better world without improving th individuals. To that end each of us must work for their own improvement and at the same time share a general responsibility for all humanity, ou particular duty being to aid those to whom we think we can be mos useful.
Nothing without goodness, imagine what a wonderful place the world woul be if we could just live this.
Optimism, unaccompanied by personal effort, is merely a state of mind and not fruitful.
The sure foundations of the state are laid in knowledge, not in ignorance; and every sneer a education, at culture, at book learning, which is the recorded wisdom of the experience o mankind, is the demagogues sneer at intelligent liberty, inviting national degeneracy and ruin.
Our success or our failure is the result of our mental condition -- ou thoughts about people and about ourselves -- our attitudes towards peopl and toward ourselves.
Misfortunes always come in by the door that has been left open for them.
All the suffering in the world arises from cherishing oneself .. all the happiness in the worl arises from cherishing others. Treating other people gently, sincerely, compassionately  this i the source of true personal happiness.
Determination, with an optimistic attitude, is the key factor for success. Right from th beginning, if you hold a pessimistic attitude even small things may not be achieved.
Each of us in our own way can try to spread compassion into peoples hearts. Wester civilizations these days place great importance on filling the human brain with knowledge, bu no one seems to care about filling the human heart with compassion.
Education is much more than a matter of imparting the knowledge and skills by which narro goals are achieved. It is also about opening our eyes to the needs and rights of others.
Education should be in harmony with the childs essentially kind nature. The most importan element is that children be raised in a climate of love and tenderness. Although from an idea perspective human qualities ought to be developed in conjunction with kindness, I often say tha I had to choose between important general qualities and kindness, I believe I would choos kindness.
Every world religion, no matter what its philosophical view, is founde first and foremost on the precept that we must reduce our selfishness an serve others. Unfortunately, sometimes in the name of religion, peopl cause more quarrels than they solve. Practitioners of different faith should realize that each religious tradition has immense intrinsic value a a means for providing mental and spiritual health.
Happiness is not something ready made. It comes from your actions.
If we ourselves remain always angry and then sing world peace, it ha little meaning. So first our individual self must learn peace. This we ca practice. Then we can teach the rest of the world.
If you have tolerance you can easily overcome difficulties. If you have little tolerance or ar within it, then the smallest thing immediately irritates you. In a difficulty you may over-react. S who teaches tolerance? Always your enemy will teach you tolerance. So your enemy instead o anger, your compassion will develop.
If you want others to be happy, practice compassion. If you want to be happy, practic compassion.
It is all too evident that our moral thinking simply has not been able to keep pace with th speed of scientific advancement.
 It is the nature of human beings to yearn for freedom, equality an dignity. If we accept that others have a right to peace and happiness equa to our own, do we not have a responsibility to help those in need?
Let us reflect on what is truly of value in life, what gives meaning to our lives, and set ou priorities on the basis of that.
One of the principal factors that hinder us from fully appreciating ou interdependence is our undue emphasis on material development. We hav become so engrossed in its pursuit that, unknowingly, we have neglected th most basic qualities of compassion, caring and cooperation.
Our generation has arrived at the threshold of a new era in huma history: the birth of a global community. Modern communications, trade, an international relations as well as the security and environmental dilemma we all face make us increasingly interdependent. No one can live i isolation. Thus, whether we like it or not, our vast and diverse huma family must finally learn to live together. Individually and collectivel we must assume a greater sense of universal responsibility.
The essence of all religions is love, compassion and tolerance. Kindnes is my true religion. No matter whether you are learned or not, whether yo believe in God or Buddha or some other religion or not, in day-to-day lif you must be a kind person. When you are motivated by kindness, it doesn' matter whether you are a practitioner a lawyer, a politician, a administrator, a worker, or an engineer: Whatever your profession or field deep down you are a kind person Love, compassion, and tolerance are necessities, not luxuries. Withou them, humanity cannot survive. If you have a particular faith or religion that is good. But you can survive without it, if you have love compassion and tolerance. The clear proof of a person's love of God is if that perso genuinely shows love to fellow human beings.
The more we truly desire to benefit others, the greater the strength and confidence we develo and the greater the peace and happiness we experience.
The purpose of religion is not to build beautiful churches or temples, but to cultivate positiv human qualities such as tolerance, generosity, and love.
The true essence of humankind is kindness. There are other qualities which come fro education or knowledge, but it is essential, if one wishes to be a genuine human being and impar satisfying meaning to ones existence, to have a good heart.
Tolerance is very important. If you have tolerance, you can easil overcome difficulties. If you have little tolerance or are without it, the the smallest thing immediately irritates you.
Universal responsibility is the key to human survival. It is the best foundation for worl peace.
We human beings are social beings. We come into the world as the result of others actions We survive here in dependence on others. Whether we like it or not, there is hardly a moment o our lives when we do not benefit from others activities. For this reason, it is hardly surprisin that most of happiness arises in the context of our relationships with others.
We must have a pure, honest, and warm-hearted motivation, and on top o that determination, optimism, hope, and the ability not to be discouraged The whole of humanity depends on this motivation.
We must understand each other and work in harmony with one another, because it is ou responsibility to develop in human beings their natural disposition for peace.
When asked what surprised me most about humanity, I replied Man. Because he sacrifice his health in order to make money. Then he sacrifices money to recuperate his health. And the he is so anxious about the future that he does not enjoy the present; the result being that he doe not live in the present or the future; he lives as if he is never going to die, and the dies neve having really lived..
Whether talking about individuals or governments, the principle that must guide us is that o human rights. If we live in a country where human rights exist and are respected, we ar naturally responsible for our duties and responsibilities.
Without accepting a religion, but simply developing a realization of th importance of compassion and love, and worth more concern and respect fo others, a kind of spiritual development is very possible for those person who are outside of religion.
You should respect other religions ... The essence of all religions i basically the same: to achieve a true sense of brotherhood, a good heart respect for others. If we can develop these qualities from within ou heart, then I think we can actually achieve true peace.
Power is dangerous unless you have humility.
A person who is obsessed with personal gains and losses can never have an open heart, or  calm, unperturbed mind, nor can they have true courage.
Who dares to teach must never cease to learn.
In your thirst for knowledge be sure not to drown in all the information.
There is no right way to do the wrong thing.
Age may wrinkle the face, but lack of enthusiasm wrinkles the soul.
Those who build to everyones advice will have a crooked house.
The peculiar character of an individual human being in distinction fro an atom lies in this, that they are the owner of themself and responsibl to themselves.
These people-and all winners-possess the will to win. Its a will that starts with a belief in ou ability to achieve the goals we dream of accomplishing.
Minds are like parachutes  dangerous if not kept open.
A man who dares to waste one hour of time has not discovered the value of life.
As for future life, every person must judge for themself between conflicting vagu possibilities.
In the long history of humankind (and animal kind too) those who learned to collaborate an improvise most effectively have prevailed.
It is not the strongest species that survive, nor the most intelligent, but the ones mos responsive to change.
The highest possible stage in moral culture is when we recognise that w ought to control our thoughts.
The love of all living creatures is the most noble attribute of man.
We have good reason too believe ... that changes in the condition o life give a tendency to increased variability.
In science the credit goes to the person who convinces the world, not t the person to whom the idea first occurs.
Were not a wisdom society  were a knowledge society; knowledge becomes outdated ver quickly, and therefore people become obsolete.
Nine-tenths of wisdom is appreciation. Go find somebodys hand and squeeze it .... whil there is still time.
Successful knowledge transfer involves neither computers nor documents but rathe interactions between people.
The ability to laugh at life is right at the top, with love an communication, in the hierarchy of our needs. Humour has much to do wit pain; it exaggerates the anxieties and absurdities we feel, so that we gai distance and through laughter, relief.
The world is full of people whose notion of a satisfactory future is, in fact, a return to th idealised past.
What is this life if, full of care We have no time to stand and stare No time to stand beneath the bough And stare as long as sheep or cows No time to see, when woods we pass Where squirrels hide their nuts in grass No time to see, in broad daylight Streams full of stars, like skies at night No time to turn at Beauty's glanc And watch her feet, how they can dance No time to wait till her mouth ca Enrich that smile her eyes began A poor life this if, full of care We have no time to stand and stare.
A clever person without wisdom is like a beautiful flower without fragrance.
Simplicity is the ultimate sophistication.
Stand still and watch the patterns .... Stains on the wall, or ashes in the fireplace, or the cloud in the sky, or the gravel on the beach ... if you look at them carefully, you might discove miraculous inventions.
The world is full of people whose notion of a satisfactory future is, in fact, a return to a idealized past.
Any life truly lived is a risky business, and it one puts up too many fences against the risk one ends up shutting out life itself.
Im always thinking about creating  My future starts when I wake up every morning   Every day I find something creative to do with my life.
Life is not made up of great sacrifices and duties but of little things in which smiles and kindness, and small obligations, given habitually ar what win and preserve the heart and secure comfort.
How majestic is naturalness. I have never met a person who I reall considered a great person who was not always natural and simple Affectation is inevitably the mark of one not sure of themselves.
I am against religion because it teaches us to be satisfied with not understanding the world.
Science offers the best answers to the meaning of life. Science offers you the privilege befor you die of understanding why you were ever born in the first place.
Debatable ... science tells us how but does not of itself give u meaning
The essence of life is statistical improbability on a colossal scale.
Of all the changes that the twentieth century has brought, none goes deeper that th disappearance of that unquestioning faith in the future and the absolute value of our civilizatio which was the dominant note of the nineteenth century.
If absolute power corrupts absolutely, where does that leave God?
Dream as if youll live forever, live as if youll die today.
A person who truly wants to make the world better should start by improving themselves an their attitudes.
Love and kindness are never wasted. They always make a difference. They bless the one wh receives them, and they bless you, the giver.
A person who truly wants to make the world better should start by improving themselves an their attitudes.
Power is not revealed by striking hard or often, but by striking true.
There is no such thing as a great talent without great will-power.
To live in the presence of great truths and eternal laws, to be led b permanent ideals -- that is what keeps a person patient when the worl ignores them, and calm and unspoiled when the world praises them.
Change your life today. Dont gamble on the future, act now, without delay.
An opportunity is as real an ingredient in business as raw material labour or finance  but onl exists when you can see it.
If you cannot accurately predict the future then you must flexibly be prepared to deal wit various possible futures.
Of one thing we can be sure the quality of our life in the future will be determined by th quality of our thinking.
The purpose of science is not to analyse or describe but to make useful models of the world A model is useful if it allows us to get use out of it.
There is no doubt that creativity is the most important human resource of all. Withou creativity, there would be no progress, and we would be forever repeating the same patterns.
Unhappiness is best defined as the difference between our talents and our expectations.
You perfect yourself only by contributing to your fellow human beings and the worl around.
The library of wisdom is more precious than all riches, and nothing that can be wished for i worthy to be compared with it. Whosoever therefore acknowledges that they are a zealou follower of truth, of happiness, of wisdom, of science, or even of the faith, must of necessit make themselves lovers of those books.
When great changes occur in history, when great principles are involved, as a rule th majority are wrong. The minority are right.
Time ripens all things: no person(*) is born wise
We are all individually and collectively responsible for the common good, including the wellbein of future generations.
The future belongs to those who give the next generation reason for hope.
There is almost a sensual longing for communication with others who have a long vision. Th immense fulfilment of the friendship between those engaged in furthering the evolution o consciousness has a quality impossible to describe.
It is not the answer that enlightens, but the question.
Nature has left this tincture in the blood, That all men would be tyrants if they could.
A little kindness from person to person is better than a vast love for all humankind.
We work not only to produce but to give value to time.
Ultizing your conscious mind to direct the subconscious mind to enter into communicatio and harmony with the universal mind is the secret of personal power.
It is the present that makes our future; what we do today will be observed or even felt in th coming millennium.
Its a lot easier to learn something if its important to you.
Our prevailing system of management has destroyed our people. People are born wit intrinsic motivation, self-respect, dignity, curiosity to learn, joy in learning. The forces o destruction being with toddlers  a prize for the best Halloween costume, grades in school, gol stars  and on up through the university. On the job people, teams, and divisions are ranked reward for the top, punishment for the bottom. Management by Objectives, quotas, incentiv pay, business plans, put together separately, division by division, cause further loss, unknow and unknowable.
Nothing is as powerful as self-belief driven by faith.
I neither complain of the past, nor do I fear the future.
People are nothing until they are excited.
We can be knowledgeable with other men's knowledge, but we cannot b wise with other men's wisdom.
Happiness resides not in possessions and not in gold, the feeling of happiness dwells in th soul.
There are many who know many things, yet are lacking in wisdom.
Small opportunities are often the beginning of great enterprise.
It is not possible to found a lasting power upon injustice, perjury, an treachery.
Develop the habit of focusing on the possibilities, not the problems.
We have to decide what current needs have priority over the future, an when, on the contrary, the future's claim against the present must b honoured. Such decisions will require us to determine what people reall need, what is a responsible use of property and resources, and what is a adequate level of life.
 Wisdom is to the soul what health is to the body.
It is not enough to have a good mind, the main thing is to use it well.
We never understand a thing so well and make it our own as when we have discovered it fo ourselves.
The future belongs to those who are virile, to whom it is a pleasure to live, to create, to whe their intelligence on that of the others.
There is a master key to success with which no person can fail. Its nam is simplicity. Simplicity, I mean, in the sense of reducing to the simples possible terms every problem that besets us. Whenever I have met a busines proposition which, after taking thought, I could not reduce to simplicity I have left it alone.
Set the course of your lives by the three stars - sincerity, courage unselfishness. From these flow a host of other virtues ... Those who follo them and do not seek success, will attain the highest type of success, tha which lies in the esteem of those among whom they dwell.
Love works in miracles every days: such as weakening the strong, and strengthening th weak; making fools of the wise, and wise men of fools; favouring the passions, destroyin reason, and in a word, turn everything topsy-turvy.
The hinge of the future is on the door of the present. Keep people o honour and integrity in places of trust and you will not fear the future.
The universe is like a safe to which there is a combination, but the combination is locked u in the safe.
Change is inevitable. Learning from change is optional.
Create your own tomorrows with your thoughts and actions today.
If you travel a path with no obstacles, it probably doesnt lead anywhere.
Its not what it costs to learn but what it costs to not learn.
It takes practice to turn common sense into common practice.
Life works out best for those who make the best of the way life works out.
We must add meaning to our life or it will remain forever meaningless.
The future of religion is connected with the possibility of developing a faith in th possibilities of human experience and human relationships that will create a vital sense of th solidarity of human interests and inspire action to make that sense a reality.
Upon (the educator) devolves the responsibility for instituting the conditions for the kind o present experiences which have a favourable effect upon the future.
Success is never final or terminal, something else must succeed it.
We need not be afraid of the future, for the future will be in ou hands. We shall need courage, energy and determination, but above all, w need faith -- faith in ourselves, in our communities and in our country.
Nothing is really work unless you would rather be doing something else.
If by renouncing a lesser happiness one attains to a happiness that is greater, then let the wis pursue that happiness which is greater.
It is easy to do that which is of real benefit to oneself, but it is difficult indeed to do that whic is truly beneficial and good.
The fool who knows he is a fool is already wise; the fool who thinks he is wise is definitely  fool.
Whoever in this world overcomes their selfish cravings, their sorrows fall away, like drops o water from a lotus flower.
Life is mostly froth and bubble Two things stand like stone Kindness in another's trouble Courage in your own.
A loving heart is the truest wisdom
Do all the good you can, and make as little fuss about it as possible.
Heaven knows we need never be ashamed of our tears, for they are rain upon the blindin dust of earth, overlying our hard hearts.
It was the best of times, it was the worst of times it was the age of wisdom, it was the age of foolishness it was the epoch of belief, it was the epoch of incredulity it was the season of Light, it was the season of Darkness it was the spring of hope, it was the winter of despair we had everything before us, we had nothing before us we were all going direct to heaven we were all going direct the other way.
No one is useless in this world who lightens the burdens of another.
Reflect upon your present blessings, of which every man has plenty; not on your pas misfortunes of which all men have some.
There is a wisdom of the head, and a wisdom of the heart.
Try to do unto others as you would have them do to you, and do not be discouraged if the fail sometimes. It is much better that they should fail than you should.
Love your enemie just in cas your friends turn out to b a bunch of bastards.
If I can stop one heart from breaking I shall not live in vain If I can ease one life the aching Or cool one pain Or help one fainting robi Unto its nest again I shall not live in vain.
I find ecstasy in living; the more mere sense of living is joy enough.
That it will never come again is what makes life so sweet.
Dissatisfaction with the world in which we live and determination t realise one that shall be better, are the prevailing characteristics of th modern spirit.
Only passion, great passions, can elevate the soul to great things.
There are three principal means of acquiring knowledge available to us: observation of nature reflection, and experimentation. Observation collects facts; reflection combines them experimentation verifies the result of that combination. Our observation of nature must b diligent, our reflection profound, and our experiments exact. We rarely see these three mean combined; and for this reason, creative geniuses are not common.
What has not been examined impartially has not been well examined Skepticism is therefore the first step toward truth.
Americans are uneasy with their possessions, guilty about power, all o which is difficult for Europeans to perceive because they themselves are s truly materialistic and so versed in the uses of power.
The willingness to accept responsibility for ones own life is the source from which selfrespec springs.
I love quotations because it is a joy to find thoughts one might have, beautifully expresse with much authority by someone recognizable wiser than oneself.
If we want things to stay as they are, thing will have to change.
If you spend all your time arguing with people who are nuts, youll be exhausted and the nut will still be nuts.
The life of sensation is the life of greed, it requires more and more The life of the spirit requires less and less; time is ample and it passage sweet.
A smile is a curve that sets everything straight.
God made the world round so we could never see too far down the road.
I don't think that ... one gets a flash of happiness once, and neve again; it is there within you, and it will come as certainly as death.
In science one tries to tell people, in such a way as to be understoo by everyone, something that no one ever knew before. But in poetry, it i the exact opposite.
It's not hard to make decisions when you know what your values are.
The way to get started is to quit talking and begin doing.
Action may not always bring happiness; but there is no happiness withou action.
I do not like giving advice, because it is an unnecessary responsibilit under any circumstances.
I know not what profit there may be in the study or history, what valu in the sayings of wise men, or in the recorded experience of the past, i it be not to guide and instruct us in the present.
I repeat ... that all power is a trust -- that we are accountable fo its exercise -- that, from the people, and for the people, all springs, an all must exist.
People are not the creatures of circumstances, circumstances are th creatures of people. We are free agents, and the individual is mor powerful than matter.
Next to knowing when to seize an opportunity, the most important thin in life is to know when to forego an advantage.
Read no history: nothing but biography, for that is life without theory.
Seeing much, suffering much and studying much, are the three pillars of learning.
The art of conversation consists of the exercise of two fine qualities; you must originate an you must sympathise; you must possess at the same time the habit of communicating and th habit of listening. The union is rather rare, but irresistible.
The fool wonders, the wise person asks
The secret of success is constancy of purpose.
The sense of existence is the greatest happiness.
The true test of a civilization is not the census, nor the size of cities, nor the crops -- no, bu the kind of man the country turns out.
The wisdom of the wise and the experience of the ages are perpetuated by quotations.
The Youth of a Nation are the trustees of Posterity.
To be conscious that you are ignorant, is the greatest step to knowledge.
 Either we take hold of the future or the future will take hold of us.
The only life;omg, reliable motivations are those that come from within, and one of th strongest of those is the joy and pride that grow from knowing that youve just done somethin as well as you can do it .
What is virtue? It is to hold yourself to your fullest development as  person and as a responsible member of the human community.
The life of one day is enough to rejoice. Even though you live for jus one day, if you can be awakened, that one day is vastly superior to on endless life of sleep .... If this day in the lifetime of a hundred year is lost, will you ever touch it with your hands again.
A great person is one who can have power and not abuse it.
Science helps to understand the present, to comprehend the past and to predict the future.
Don't expect to be paid a dollar an hour for your working hours when you then use you leisure hours as though they were not worth five cents a dozen.
To provide for the future is a part of one's responsibility in life; and the world has scan consideration for the person who neglects it.
We have learned that power is a positive force if it is used for positive purposes.
Leadership is a journey, not a destination It is a marathon, not a sprin It is a process, not an outcome..
No person is an island entire of itself; every man is a part of th main. Any person's death diminishes me, because I am involved in Mankind and therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls; it tolls fo thee.
There's nothing more precious in this world than the feeling of being wanted.
There must be a sense that what I do is somehow congruent with th overall purpose, design and flow of the universe as I experience it. I'v got to feel that my work fits with the big picture.
If you want to be respected by others, the great thing is to respect yourself.
If you were to destroy in mankind the belief in immorality, not onl love but every living force maintaining the life of the world would at onc be dried up.
It is not the brains that matter most, but that which guides them -- th character, the heart, generous qualities, progressive ideas.
Without suffering, happiness cannot be understood. The ideal passes through suffering lik gold through fire.
It is a hard rule of life, and I believe a healthy one, that no grea plan is ever carried out without meeting and overcoming endless obstacle that come up to try the skill of a person's hand, the quality of thei courage, and the endurance of his faith.
Character isnt inherited. One builds it daily by the way one thinks and acts, thought b thought, action by action.
What is all wisdom save a collection of platitudes? Take fifty of our current proverbia sayings . they are so trite, so threadbare, that we can hardly bring our lips to utter them. None the less they embody the concentrated experience of the human race and people who order thei life according to their teaching cannot go far wrong.
Self government is no less essential to the development, growth and happiness of th individual than to the nation.
A happy person is not a person in a certain set of circumstances, but rather a person with  certain set of attitudes.
When you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must b the truth.
A person shall never be enriched by envy.
If we are ever to enjoy life, now is the time -- not tomorrow, nor nex year, nor in some future life after we have died. The best preparation fo a better life next year is a full, complete, harmonious, joyous life thi year. Our beliefs in a rich future life are of little importance unless w coin them into a rich present life. Today should always be our mos wonderful day.
The World is a great mirror. it reflects back to you what you are. i you are loving, if you are friendly, if you are helpful, the World wil prove loving and friendly and helpful to you. The World is what you are.
What goes around, comes around
When you find someone who knows their job and is willing to tak responsibility, keep out of their way and don't bother them wit unnecessary supervision. What you may think is co-operation is nothing bu interference.
No one can live my life for me. If I am wise, I shall begin today to build my own truer an better world from within.
There is a vast difference between success at twenty-five and success a sixty. At sixty nobody envies you. Instead everybody rejoices generously sincerely, in your good fortune.
We can change our whole life and the attitude of people around us simply by changin ourselves.
A manager is responsible for the application and performance of knowledge.
Dont try to innovate for the future, innovate for the present.
Follow effective action with quiet reflection. From the quiet reflection will come even mor effective action.
Fools rush in where wise men fear to trade.
Long-range planning does not deal with future decisions, but with the future of presen decisions.
Rank does not confer privilege or give power. It imposes responsibility.
Society can easily degenerate into one in which the emphasis is on formal degrees rather tha on performance capacity. It can easily degenerate into one of totally sterile, Confucian-typ Mandarins, a danger to which the American university, particularly, is singularly susceptible. I can, on the other hand, also fall prey to overvaluing immediately usable, practical knowledge and underrate the importance of fundamentals and of wisdom altogether.
The best way to determine the future is to create it.
The fewer data needed, the better the information. And an overload of information, that is anything much beyond what is truly needed, leads to information blackout. It does not enrich but improverishes.
The leaders who work most effectively, it seems to me, never say I. And thats not becaus they have trained themselves not to say I. They dont think I. They think we. They thin team. They understand their job to be to make the team function. They accept responsibilit and dont sidestep it, but we gets the credit .... This is what creates trust, what enables you t get the task done.
The most important thing in communication is to hear what isnt being said.
The most serious mistakes are not being made as a result of wrong answers. The trul dangerous thing is asking the wrong questions.
Time is the scarcest resource and unless it is managed nothing else can be managed.
 We now accept the fact that learning is a lifelong process of keeping abreast of change. An the most pressing task is to teach people how to learn.
In the pursuit of happiness half the world is on the wrong scent. They think it consists i having and getting, and in being served by others. Happiness is really found in giving and i serving others.
I wonder why it is that we are not all kinder to each other than we are. How much the worl needs it! How easily it is done!
The people who influence you are people who believe in you.
There is no happiness in having or in getting, but only in giving.
You will find, as you look back upon your life, that the moments that stand out are th moments when you have done things for others.
 All empire is no more than power in trust.
Happy the person, and happy they alone Those who can call today their own Those who, secure within, can say Tomorrow, do thy worst, for I have live today.
If education cannot help separate truth from falsehood, beauty from vulgarity, right fro wrong, then what can it teach us?
No vision and you peris  No ideal, and youre lost  Your heart must ever cheris  Some faith at any cost  Some hope, some dream to cling to  Some rainbow in the sky  Some melody to sing to  Some service that is high.
One thing alone I charge you. As you live, believe in life! Always huma beings will live and progress to greater, broader and fuller life. The onl possible death is to lose belief in this truth simply because the great en comes slowly, because time is long.
We must not ask where science and technology are taking us, but rather how we can manag science and technology so that it can help us get to where we want to go.
The smallest good deed is better than the grandest good intention.
The world will never have lasting peace so long as men reserve for war the finest huma qualities.
All generalisations are dangerous, even this one.
One's work may be finished someday but one's education, never.
What life means to us is determined not so much by what life brings to us as by the attitud we bring to life; not so much by what happens to us as by our reaction to what happens.
My tip for happiness is to believe the best in everyone, its amazing if you live by thi mantra how rarely you are disappointed and it makes the world seem a much happier place.
Education is a progressive discovery of our own ignorance.
If you want the present and the future to be different from the past, Spinoza tells us study th past, find out the causes that made it what it was and bring different causes to bear.
Is Christianity dying? Is the religion that gives morals, courage, an art to Western civilization suffering slow decay through the spread o knowledge, the widening of astronomic, geographical, and historica horizons, the realization of evil in history and the soul, the decline o faith in an afterlife and of trust in a benevolent guidance of the world If this is so, it is the basic event of modern times, for the soul of  civilization is its religion, and it dies with its faith.
Knowledge is the eye of desire and can become the pilot of the soul
Most of us spend too much time on the last twenty-four hours and too little on the last si thousand years.
One of the lessons of history is that nothing is often a good thing to do and always a cleve thing to say.
Science gives us knowledge, but only philosophy gives us wisdom.
So I should say that civilization begin with religion and stoicism: the end with skepticism and unbelief, and the undisciplined pursuit o individual pleasure. A civilization is born stoic and dies Epicurean.
The health of nations is more important than the wealth of nations.
Health is better than wealth
The individual succumbs, but they do not die if they have left something to mankind.
What better way is there to make people love one another than to make them understand on another. True charity comes only with clarity  just as mercy is but justice that understands Surely the root of all evil is the inability to see clearly that which is.
If you want the rainbow, youve got to put up with the rain.
It is certain that at all levels of the social hierarchy, the average well-being has increased although not always at the most equitable rate. The malaise from which we suffer is therefore not due to any increase in the number or intensity of the objective causes of our sufferings. It attest not a greater economics misery but an alarming moral misery.
If the sight of the blue skies fills you with joy, if the simple things of nature have a messag that you understand, rejoice, for your soul is alive.
 All blame is a waste of time. No matter how much fault you find with another, and regardles of how much you blame them, it will not change you. The only thing blame does is to keep th focus off you when you are looking for external reasons to explain your happiness or frustration You may succeed in making another feel guilty about something by blaming them, but you won succeed in changing whatever it is about you that is making you unhappy.
Be miserable. Or motivate yourself. Whatever has to be done, its always your choice.
Go for it now. The future is promised to no one.
Present-moment living, getting in touch with your now, is at the heart of effective living When you think about it, there really is no other moment you can live. Now is all there is, an the future is just another present moment to live when it arrives.
The state of your life is nothing more than a reflection of your state of mind.
Are you willing to stoop down and consider the needs and the desires o little children; to remember the weakness and loneliness of people who ar growing old; to stop asking how much your friends love you, and as yourself whether you love them enough; to bear in mind the things tha those who live in the same house with you really want, without waiting fo them to tell you; to trim your lamp so that it will give more light an less smoke, and to carry it in front so that your shadow will fall behin you; to make a grave for your ugly thoughts, and a garden for your kindl feelings, with the gate open?
Gratitude is the inward feeling of kindness received. Thankfulness is the natural impulse t express that feeling. Thanksgiving is the following of that impulse.
What's money A person is a success if the gets up in the mornin and goes to bed at nigh and in between does what the wants to do.
Of those who claim to be teachers of others many need instruction themselves.
History teaches us that people and nations behave wisely once they hav exhausted all other alternatives.
The vital force in business life is the honest desire to serve Business, it is said, is the science of service. Those profit most wh serve best. At the very bottom of the wish to render service must b honesty of purpose, and as I go along through life, I see more and mor that honesty in word, thought, and work means success. it spells a lif worth living and in business, clean success.
All wisdom is from the Lord and with him it remains for ever The sand of the sea, the drops of rain And the days of eternity  who can count them The height of heaven, the breadth of the earth The abyss, and wisdom  who can search them out Wisdom was created before all other things And prudent understanding from eternity The root of wisdom  to whom has it been revealed Her subtleties who knows them There is but one who is wise, greatly to be feared Seated upon his throne  the Lord It is he who created her He saw her and took her measure He poured her out upon all his works Upon all the living according to his gift He lavished her upon those who love him.
Everyone who lives ought to be wise; it is as good as receiving a Inheritance and will give you as much security as money can. Wisdom keep you safe - this is the advantage of knowledge.
For in much wisdom is much grief; and they that increaseth knowledg increaseth sorrow.
For everything there is a season, and a time for every matter under heaven.
Seek not out the things that are too hard for thee, neither search th things that are above thy strength.
The wisdom of a learned person cometh by opportunity of leisure: an those that hath little business shall become wise.
To every thing there is a season, and a time to every purpose under th heaven: A time to be born and a time to die; A time to plant, and a time to pluck up that which is planted; A time to kill, and a time to heal; A time to break down, and a time to build up; A time to weep, and a time to laugh; a time to mourn, and a time to dance A time to cast away stones. and a time to gather stones together; A time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing A time to get, and a time to lose A time to keep, and a time to cast away; A time to rend, and a time to sew A time to keep silence, and a time to speak A time to love, and a time to hate A time of war, and a time of peace.
 It is a rare privileg to be born as a human being, a we happen to be If we do not achieve enlightenment in this life when do we expect to achieve it?
One must not always think so much about what one should do, but rathe what one should be. Our works do not ennoble us; but we must ennoble ou works.
People should think less about what they ought to do, and more about what they ought to be. If only their living were good, their work would shine forth brightly.
Relationships are the essence of everything.
The more wise and powerful a master, the more directly is his work created, and the simpler it is.
I ask you to look both ways. For the road to a knowledge of the star leads through the atom; and important knowledge of the atom has bee reached through the stars.
Science is one thing, wisdom is another. Science is an edged tool, wit which men play like children, and cut their own fingers.
Service is the rent each of us pays for living -- the very purpose o life and not something you do in your spare time or after you have reache your personal goals.
Service is what life is all about.
Teaching our children to treat others as they wish to be treated is one of the most fundamental values we adults can pass on. WE would have a different country and world if this lesson was learned and followed.
No democratic world will work as it should work until we recognise tha we can only enjoy any right so long as we are prepared to discharge it equivalent duty. This applies just as much to states in their dealing wit one another as to individuals within the states.
I never did anything worth doing by accident, nor did any of m inventions come by accident; they came by work.
Opportunity is missed by most people because it is dressed in overall and looks like work.
When a person dies, if they can pass enthusiasm along to their children they have left them an estate of incalculable value.
We all have a basic need to be active, engaged in meaningful pursuits and valued by other people. In an important sense, these things constitut the true value of work more than money or power.
In helping others, we shall help ourselves, for whatever good we give out completes the circle and comes back to us.
Those that never change their opinions, never corrects their mistakes, and will never be wiser on the morrow than they are today.
Right actions for the future are the best apologies for wrong ones i the past.
Seek happiness for its own sake, and you will not find it, seek fo duty, and happiness will follow as the shadow comes with the sunshine.
Those who never change their opinions, never correct their mistakes, an they will never be wiser on the morrow than they were today.
The great task of the peace is to work morals into it. The only sort o peace that will be real is one in which everybody takes their share o responsibility. World organisations and conferences will be of no valu unless there is an improvement in people to people relations.
While everything else in our lives has gotten simpler, speedier, mor microwavable and user friendly, child-raising seems to have expanded t fill the time no longer available for it.
A happy person is too satisfied with the present to dwell too much on th future.
 A life directed chiefly toward the fulfilment of personal desire sooner or later always leads to bitter disappointment.
Americans live even more for their goals, for the future, than Europeans. Life for them is always becoming, never being ... They are less individualist than the European ...more emphasis is laid on the 'we' than the 'I'.
Anybody who really wants to abolish war must resolutely declar themselves in favour of their own country's resigning a portion of it sovereignty in place of international institutions.
A person who never made a mistake never tried anything new.
Anyone who has never made a mistake has never tried anything new.
As a human being, one has been endowed with just enough intelligence t be able to see clearly how utterly inadequate that intelligence is whe confronted with what exists.
Envy -- is when you want something you haven't got and you can fin someone else to blame for the fact you haven't got it.
Everything should be made as simple as possible, but not simpler.
Human beings can attain a worthy and harmonious life only if they ar able to rid themselves, within the limits of human nature, of the strivin for the wish fulfilments of material kinds. The goal is to raise th spiritual values of society.
Humiliation and mental oppression by ignorant and selfish teachers wrea havoc in the youthful mind that can never be undone and often exert  baleful influence in later life.
I am a dedicated but not an absolute pacifist; this means that I a opposed to the use of force under any circumstances except when confronte by an enemy who pursues the destruction of life as an end in itself.
I am also convinced that one gains the purest joy from spiritual thing only when they are not tied in with one's livelihood.
I am enough of an artist to draw freely upon my imagination. Imagination is more important than knowledge. Knowledge is limited. Imagination encircles the world.
I feel myself so much a part of everything living that I am not in th least concerned with the beginning or ending of the concrete existence o any one person in this eternal flow.
I have no special talents. I am only passionately curious.
Imagination is more important than knowledge. Knowledge is limited. Imagination encircles the world
Imagination of what may be possible is more valuable than knowledge of what is.
I never teach my pupils; I only attempt to provide the conditions in which they can learn.
I never think of (/worry about) the future. It comes soon enough.
Information is not knowledge.
It is important for the common good to foster individuality; for onl the individual can produce the new ideas which the community needs for it continuous improvement and needs -- indeed, to avoid sterility an petrification.
It is not so very important for a person to learn facts. For that the do not really need a college. Students can learn that from books. The valu of an education is not in the learning of many facts but in explorin issues that cannot be learned from textbooks.
It is the supreme art of the teacher to awaken joy in creativ expression and knowledge.
Look deep, deep into nature, and then you will understand everythin better.
Many times a day I realize how my own outer and inner life is built upo the labors of others, both living and dead, and how earnestly I must exer myself in return as much as I have received.
More and more I come to value charity and love of ones fellow beings above everything else  All our lauded technological progress  our very civilization  is like the axe in the hand of the pathological criminal.
Nationalism is an infantile disease. It is the measles of mankind.
Never regard your study as a duty, but as the enviable opportunity t learn to know the liberating influence of beauty in the realm of the spiri for your own personal job and to the profit of the community to which you work belongs.
No amount of experimentation can ever prove me right; a singl experiment can prove me wrong.
Not everything that can be counted counts, and not everything that counts can be counted.
Now he has departed from this strange world a little ahead of me. That means nothing. People like us, who believe in physics, know that the distinction between past, present and future is only a stubbornly persistent illusion.
One doesn't need to understand the world - but one must be able to cope with it.
One should never impose one's views on a problem; one should rather study it, and in time a solution will reveal itself.
Only a life lived for others is a life worth living.
Only two things are infinit the univers and human stupidit and I'm not sure about the former.
Organised power can be opposed only by organised power. Much as I regre this there is no other way.
Our death is not an end if we can live on in the next generation. Fo they are us; our bodies are only wilted leaves on the tree of life.
1) Out of cutter find simplicity 2) From discord make harmony 3) In the middle of difficulty lies opportunity.
Perfection of means and confusion of goals seem, in my opinion, to characterise our age.
Possessions, outwards success, publicity, luxury - to me these hav always been contemptible. I believe that a simple and unassuming manner o life is best for every one, best both for the body and the mind.
Religion without science is blind, and science without religion is lame Science should support faith and turn it into something more potent. No just knowledge but something far more ambitious. Truth.
Science without religion is lam Religion without science is blind.
Take care not to make the intellect our god; it has powerful muscles but no personality.
Teaching should be such that what is offered is perceived as a valuable gift and not as a hard duty.
The aim (of education) must be the training of independently acting and thinking individuals who, however, see in the service to the community their highest life achievement.
The aim of science is, on the one hand, is as complete a comprehensio as possible of the connection between perceptible experiences in thei totality, and, on the other hand, the achievement of this aim by employin a minimum of primary concepts and relations.
The attempt to combine wisdom and power has only rarely been successful and then only for a short while.
The concern for the human race and its destiny must always be the chief interest of all technical effort. Never forget it among your diagrams and equations.
The crippling of individuals I consider the worst evil of capitalism Our whole educational system suffers from this evil. An exaggerate competitive attitude is inculcated into the student, who is trained t worship acquisitive success as a preparation for their future.
The grand aim of all science is to cover the greatest number o empirical facts by logical deduction from the smallest numbers o hypotheses or axioms.
The important thing is not to stop questioning.
The life of the individual has meaning only insofar as it aids in makin the life of every living thing nobler and more beautiful. Life is sacred that is to say, it is the supreme value to which all other values ar subordinate.
The most beautiful thing we can experience is the mysterious. It is th source of all art and science. Those to whom this emotion is a stranger who can no longer pause to wonder and stand rapt in awe, are as good a dead; their eyes are closed.
The most important kind of tolerance is tolerance of the individual b society and the state ... when the state becomes the main thing and th individual becomes its weak-willed tool, then all finer values are lost.
The most incomprehensible thing about the world is that it i incomprehensible.
The most precious things in life are not those one gets for money.
The only thing that interferes with my learning is my education.
The person who regards their own life and that of their fellow-creature as meaningless is not merely unfortunate, but almost disqualified fo life.
The pursuit of knowledge for its own sake, an almost fanatical love o justice and the desire for personal independence -- these are the feature of the Jewish tradition which makes me thank my stars that I belong to it.
There are only two ways to live your life: One is as though nothing is  miracle; the other is as though everything is a miracle.
The scientist's religious feeling takes the form of a rapturou amazement at the harmony of natural law, which reveals an intelligence o such superiority that, in comparison with it, the highest intelligence o human beings is an utterly insignificant reflection. This feeling is th guiding principle of their life and work.
The significant problems we face cannot be solved at the same level o thinking we were at when we created them.
The smile on the faces of the people .... is symbolical of one of th greatest assets of the American. They are friendly, self-confident optimistic -- and without envy.
The trite object of human effort - possessions , outward success, luxur - have always seemed to me contemptible.
The true value of a human being is determined primarily by the measur and sense in which they have obtained liberation from the self.
The unleashed power of the atom has changed everything save our modes o thinking and we thus drift toward unparalleled catastrophe.
The world is dangerous to live in, not because of those who do evil, bu because of those who look on and let them do so.
Three rules of wor 1. Out of clutter, find simplicity 2. From discord, find harmony 3. In the middle of difficulty lies opportunity.
Try not to become a person of success but rather try to become a person of value.
Unthinking respect for authority is the greatest enemy of truth.
We have to do the best we can. This is our sacred human responsibility.
We must learn the difficult lesson that the future of mankind will onl be tolerable when our course, in world affairs as in all other matters, i based upon justice and law rather than the threat of naked power.
We should take care not to make the intellect our god. It has, o course, powerful muscles but no personality.
What is the meaning of human life, or for that matter, of the life o any creature? To know an answer to this question means to be religious.
Does it make any sense, then, to pose the question.
The person who regards their own life and that of their fello creatures as meaningless is not merely unhappy but hardly fit for life.
Wisdom is not a product of schooling but of life-long attempt to acquire it.
Whoever is careless with truth in small matters cannot be trusted i important affairs.
Every gun that is made, every warship launched, every rocket fire signifies, in the final sense, a theft from those who hunger and are no fed, those who are cold and are not clothed.
Neither a wise person nor a brave one lies down on the tracks of histor to wait for the train of the future to run over them.
Plans are nothing: Planning is everything.
The older I get, the more wisdom I find in the ancient rule of taking first things first  a process which often reduces the most complex human problems to manageable proportions.
The spirit of the human race is more important than mere physica strength, and the spiritual fiber of a nation than its wealth.
The supreme quality for leadership is unquestionably integrity. Without it, no real success is possible, no matter whether it is on a section gang, a football field, in an army, or in an office.
The world must learn to work together, or finally it will not work a all.
Things are more like they arte now than they ever were  before.
Unless each day can be looked back upon by an individual as one in whic they have had some fun, some joy, some satisfaction, that day is a loss.
People have the capacity to love, not just their own species, but lif in all its shapes and forms. This empathy with the interknit web of life i the highest spiritual expression I know of.
Without the past the pursued future has no meaning.
Possessions possess.
The highest sacrifice is a broken and contrite heart; the highest wisdo is that which is found in the Torah; the noblest of all ornaments i modesty; and the most beautiful thing that anyone can do, is to forgive  wrong.
A quiet movement toward voluntary simplicity is under way. It involves  deliberate organization of life for a purpose ... a manner of living tha is outwardly more simple and inwardly more rich ... a deliberate choice t live with less in the belief that more of life will be returned to us i the process.
Our leaders are bogged down, trying to cope with our falterin institutions. They are so enmeshed in crisis management that they have n time to exercise genuinely creative leadership. We (could) keep waiting fo some one else (to save us). The message of this book (
 by Margaret A. Lulic) is that there is no one else. You are it We are it.
A person who stands for nothing will fall for anything.
Education is your passport to the future, for tomorrow belongs to th people who prepare for it today.
If I had the opportunity to say a final word to all the young people o America, it would be this: Don't think too much about yourself. Try t cultivate the habit of thinking of others; this will reward you Selfishness always brings its own revenge. It cannot be escaped. B unselfish. That is the first and final commandment for those who would b useful, and happy in their usefulness. If you think of yourself only, yo cannot develop because you are choking the source of development, which i spiritual expansion through thought for others. Then nourish your minds b good reading, constant reading. Discover what your life work is, work i which you can do most good, in which you can be happiest. Be unafraid i all things when you know you are in the right.
Liberal education develops a sense of right, duty and honor; and more and more in the modern world, large business rests on rectitude and honor as well as on good judgment.
One of the purest and most enduring of human pleasures is to be found i the possession of a good name among one's neighbors and acquaintances.
For the growing good of the world is partly dependent on unhistori acts; and that things are not so ill with you and me as they might hav been, is half owing to the number who lived faithfully a hidden life, an rest in unvisited tombs.
If we had a keen vision and feeling of all ordinary human life, it would be like hearing the grass grow and the squirrel's heart beat, and we should die of that roar which lies on the other side of silence.
No person can be wise on an empty stomach
The important work of moving the world forward does not wait to be done by the perfect person.
What do we live for, if it is not to make life less difficult for eac other?
What makes life dreary is want of motive.
What do we live for, if it is not to make life less difficult for eac other?
What makes life dreary is want of motive.
Half of the harm that is done in this world is due to people who want t feel important. They don't mean to do harm -- but they are so absorbed i the endless struggle to think well of themselves that the harm does no interest them.
Humility is the most difficult of all virtues to achieve; nothing dies harder than the desire to think well of self.
In our age  people seem more than ever prone to confuse wisdom with knowledge, and knowledge with information, and to try to solve problems of life in terms of engineering.
I've been freed from the self that pretends to be someone And in becoming no-one I begin to live It is worth while dying to find out what life is.
Most of the trouble in the world is caused by people wanting to be important.
No one can become really educated without having pursued some study i which they took no interest. For it is part of education to interes ourselves in subjects for which we have no aptitude.
Only those who will risk going too far can possibly find out how far one can go.
Success is relative: It is what we can make of the mess we have made o things.
The Nobel is a ticket to one's funeral. No one has ever done anythin after they got it.
The only wisdom we can hope to acquir    Is the wisdom of humility; humility is endless.
The young feel tired at the end of an action The old at the beginning.
Time present and time pas Are both perhaps present in time future And time future contained in time past.
To each individual the world will take on a different connotation o meaning -- the important lies in the desire to search for an answer.
We shall not cease from exploratio And the end of all our explorin Will be to arrive where we starte And know the place for the first time.
What we call the beginning is often the en And to make an end is to make a beginning The end is wher we start from.
Where is the life we have lost in living Where is the wisdom we have lost in Knowledge Where is the knowledge we have lost in information?
There are not fools, who give what they cannot keep in order to gai what they cannot lose.
All civilization has from time to time become a thin crust over a volcan of revolution.
Life is livable because we know that whatever we go most of the peopl we meet will be restrained in their actions towards us by an almos instinctive network of taboos.
People who know themselves are no longer fools; they stand on th threshold of the Door of Wisdom.
It is not half as important to burn the midnight oil as it is to b awake in the daytime.
The question put by a wise person is half the answer
All life is an experiment. The more experiments you make the better.
As long as our civilization is essentially one of property, of fences of exclusiveness, it will be mocked by delusions.
Cause and effect, means and ends, seed and fruit, cannot be severed; fo the effect already blooms in the cause, the end preexists in the means, th fruit in the seed.
Do not be too timid and squeamish about your actions. All life is an experiment.
Do not go where the path may lead, go instead where there is no path.
Each moment of the year has its own BEAUTY, a picture which was never seen before, and which shall never be SEEN again.
Enthusiasm is one of the most powerful engines of success. When you do a thing, do it with your might. Put your whole soul into it. Stamp it with your own personality. Be active, be energetic, be enthusiastic and faithful, and you will accomplish your objective. Nothing great was ever achieved without enthusiasm.
Every violation of truth is not only a sort of suicide in the liar, but is a stab at the health of human society.
Finish every day and be done with it. You have done what you could. Some blunders and some absurdities no doubt crept in; forget them as soon as you can. Tomorrow is a new day; begin it well and serenely with too high a spirit to be encumbered with your old nonsense. This day is all that is good and fair. It is too dear, with its hopes and invitations, to waste a moment on the yesterdays.
Great people are those who see that the spiritual is stronger than the material and that thoughts rule the world.
Happiness is a perfume you cannot pour on others without getting a fe drops on yourself.
I compared notes with one of my friends who expects everythinbg of th universe, and is disappointed when anything is less than the best, and  found that I begin at the other extreme, expecting nothing, and am alway full of thanks for moderate goods.
In skating over thin ice, our safety is our speed.
It is one of the most beautiful compensations of this life that no-one can sincerely try to help another without helping themselves.
Life is a succession of events which must be lived to be understood.
Life is the festival only to the wise.
Live well Learn plenty Laugh often Love much.
Make the most to yourself, for that is all there is to you.
Many time the reading of a book has made the future of a man.
No great person ever complains of want of opportunity.
Nothing can bring you peace but yourself. Nothing can bring you peace but the triumph of principles.
 .... to know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived. This is to have succeeded.
Some of your grief's you have cure And the sharpest you still have survived But what torments of pain you endure From evils that never arrived.
Sometimes money costs too much.
That which you persist in doing becomes easier to do. Not that the nature of the thing itself has changed, but that you ability to do it has increased!
The ancestor of every action is a thought.
Is that strictly true? -- is it not feelings that produce actions no thoughts?
The end of the human race will be that it will eventually die o civilization.
The greatest homage we can pay to truth is to use it.
The invariable mark of wisdom is to see the miraculous in the common.
The less government we have the better -- the fewer laws and the less confided power. The antidote to this abuse of formal government is the influence of private character, the growth of the individual.
The line between failure and success is so fine that we scarcely know when we pass it -- so fine that we often are on the line and do not know it.
The measure of mental health is the disposition to find good everywhere.
The only way to have a friend is to be one.
The purpose of life is not to be happy. It is to be useful, to be honourable, to be compassionate, to have it make some difference that you have lived and lived well.
There is a time in every person's education when they arrive at th conviction that envy is ignorance; that imitation is suicide; they mus take themselves for better, for worse, as their portion; that though th wide universe is full of good, no kernel of nourishing corn can come t them but through their toil bestowed on that plot of ground which is give to them to till. The power which resides in them is new in Nature, and non but the individual themselves knows what it is that they can do, nor d they know until they have tried.
There is no calamity that right words will not begin to redress.
The secret of education lies in respecting the pupil.
The sum of wisdom is that time is never lost that is devoted to work.
The true test of civilization is, not the census nor the size of cities nor the crops -- no, but the kind of people the country turns out.
The wise through excess of wisdom is made a fool.
The wise person always throws themselves on the side of their assailants. It is more their interest than it is theirs to find their weak point.
The years teach much which the days never knew.
Though we travel the world over to find the beautiful, we must carry i with us or we find it not.
To finish the moment, to find the journey's end in every step of th road, to live the greatest number of good hours, is wisdom.
To laugh often and much: To win the respect of intelligent people and the affection of children, to earn the appreciation of honest critics and endure the betrayal of false friends; to appreciate beauty; to find the best in others, to leave the world a bit better whether by a healthy child, a garden patch, or a redeemed social condition; to know even one life has breathed easier because you lived. That is to have succeeded.
We judge a persons wisdom by their hope.
WHAT IS SUCCESS To laugh often and much To win the respect of intelligent people and the affection of children To earn the appreciation of honest critics and endure the betrayal of fals friends To appreciate beauty To find the best in others To leave the world a bit better, whether by a healthy child a garden patc or a redeemed social condition To know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived This is to have succeeded.
What lies behind us and what lies before us are tiny matters compared t what lies within us.
When the eyes say one thing and the tongue another, a practical perso relies on the language of the first.
Wisdom has its root in goodness, not goodness its root in wisdom.
Wisdom is like electricity. There is no permanently wise person, but people capable of wisdom, who, being put into certain company, or other favourable conditions, become wise for a short time, as glasses rubbed acquire electric power for a while.
Write it on your heart that every day is the best day in the year.
You shall have joy, or you shall have power, said God; you shall not have both.
Selfishness is the root and source of all natural and moral evils.
A smooth sea never made a skilled mariner.
Hope for the best, but prepare for the worst.
Knowledge in youth is wisdom in age.
Life is full of hazards, which experience neither bought nor taught will always enable us to foresee.
Take time to be friendly -- it is the road to happiness Take time to dream -- it is hitching your wagon to a star Take time to love and to be loved -- it is the prividge of th gods Take time to look around -- it is too short a day to be selfish Take time to laugh -- it is music to the soul.
Who thinks to live must live to think Else mind and body lose their link.
Wisdom rides upon the ruins of folly.
Zeal without knowledge is the sister of folly.
Celebrating Selfhoo             Journey into wholeness through grief resolutio That which is gone is gone for good and will never be agai After a while you learn the subtle difference between holding a han                         and chaining a soul             And you learn that love doesnt mean leanin               and company does not mean security             You learn that kisses arent contract               and presents arent promises     You begin to accept your defeats with your head u             and your eyes ahea    with the grace of a man or woman not the grief of a child      You learn to build all your roads on toda             because tomorrows ground is uncertai             for plans and futures have         funny way of falling down in mid flight    After a while you learn than even sunshine burn             if you ask too much    So you plant your own garden and decorate your own sou        instead of waiting for someone to bring you flowers     And you learn that you really can endure             that you really are stron             and you really do have worth      And you learn and you lear       and with every goodbye you learn.
All human beings seek the happy life, but many confuse the means -- fo example, wealth and status - with that life itself. This misguided focus o the means to a good life makes people move further from the hppy life. Th really worthwhile things are the virtuous activities that make up the happ life, not the external means that may seem to produce it.
An active sex life within a framework of personal commitments augment the integrity of the people involved and is part of a flourishing life.
He is a man of sense who does not grieve for what he has not, but rejoices in what he has.
Any person capable of angering you becomes your master; he can anger you only when you permit yourself to be disturbed by him.
Men are not influenced by things but by their thoughts about things.
No person is able to make progress when they are wavering betwee opposite things.
Nothing great is created suddenly, any more than a bunch of grapes or  fig. If you tell me that you desire a fig. I answer you that there must b time. Let it first blossom, then bear fruit, then ripen.
Nothing satisfies a person unless they are already satisfied by  little.
On the occasion of every accident that befalls you, remember to turn t yourself and inquire what power you have for turning it to use.
People are disturbed not by things that happen, but by the view the take of them.
Practice yourself, for heaven's sake, in little things; and thenc proceed to greater.
The key is to keep company only with people who uplift you, whos presence calls forth your best.
There is only one way to happiness and that is to cease worrying abou things which are beyond the power of our will.
They are wise who do not grieve for things that they have not, bu rejoice in those that they have.
There is only one way to happiness and that is to cease worrying about things which are beyond the power of our will.
There is this difference between a wise man and a fool; the wise man expects future things, but does not depend upon them, and in the meantime enjoys the present, remembering the past with delight but the life of the fool is wholly carried on the future.
Of all the things that wisdom provides to help one live one's entir life in happiness, the greatest by far is the possession of friendship.
Only one principle will give you courage, that is the principle that n evil lasts forever nor indeed for very long.
One sees the past better than it was; one finds the present worse tha it is; one hopes for a future happier than it will be.
In the country of the blind the one-eyed man is king.
The main hope of a nation lies in the proper education of its youth.
This type of person who is devoted to the study of wisdom is always most unlucky in everything, and particularly when it comes to procreating children; I imagine this is because Nature wants to ensure that the evils of wisdom shall not spread further throughout mankind.
Create your future from your future, not your past.
Healthy children will not fear life, if their elders have integrit enough not to fear death.
Only if we can restrain ourselves is conversation possible. Good talk rises upon much self-discipline.
The quizzical expression of the monkey at the zoo comes from hi wondering whether he is his brother's keeper, or his keeper's brother.
The inhabitants or soul of the universe is never seen; its voice alon is heard. All we know is that it has a gentle voice, like a woman, a voic so fine ... that even children cannot become afraid. And what it says i 'Silaersinarsinivdluge,' 'Be not afraid of the universe'.
If there was a measure of satisfaction in life it would be that at ever moment you are doing what you WANT to do not what you MUST do.
If you think about it, the past and the future do not exist but in you mind.
Relationships do not have to be permanent. The beauty of a relationshi is measured by its intensity, not its duration.
The future is the hope that you will have some interesting experience later in your life. The future is not finding excuses to avoid interestin experiences today.
 It is a sign of real genius that it remains unspoiled by success.
Those who have learned to disagree without being disagreeable ha discovered the most valuable secret of a diplomat.
Wisdom is the result of learning and learning the result of trying something new. Doing something new everyday changes our attitude towards life.
Along with success comes a reputation for wisdom.
A person's most valuable trait is a judicious sense of what not t believe.
Cleverness is not wisdom.
love is all we have, the onlu way that each can help the other.
The best and safest thing is to keep a balance in your life, acknowledge the great powers around us and in us. If you can do that, and live that way, you are really a wise person.
The wise with hope support the pains of life.
Those who can properly summarize many ideas in a brief statement is a wise person.
To the fool, those who speak wisdom will sound foolish.
 What we look for does not come to pass God finds a way for what none foresaw.
Whoso neglects learning in their youth, loses the past and is dead fo the future.
Wisdom is meaningless until your own experience has given it meaning and there is wisdom in the selection of wisdom.
If you dont think every day is a great day try going without one.
Those who build the futur are those who know that greater things are yet to come and that they themselve will help bring them about  Their minds are illuminate by the blazing sun of hope They never stop to doubt They haven't time.
May we never let the things we can't have, or don't have, or shouldn' have, spoil our enjoyment of the things we do have and can have. As w value our happiness let us not forget it, for one of the greatest lesson in life is learning to be happy without the things we cannot or should no have.
No single event can awaken within us a stranger totally unknown to us. To live is to be born slowly.
Wisdom is when we see with our heart.
Thus saith the Lord, Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, neither let the mighty man glory in his might, let not the rich man glory in his riches: But let him that glorieth glory in this, that he understandeth and knoweth me.
Exactness in little duties is a wonderful source of cheerfulness.
There are souls in this world which have the gift of finding joy everywhere and of leaving it behind them when they go.
There are two kinds of writers - the great ones who can give you truths and the lesser ones, who can give you only themselves.
Glory is a heavy burden, a murdering poison, and to bear it is an art.
You dont have to accept the invitation to get angry. Instead, practice forgiveness, empathy and encouragement.
The media is now the real source of power.
Intelligence is that faculty of mind, by which order is perceived in  situation previously considered disordered.
The end of wisdom is to dream high enough to lose the dream in the seeking of it.
Before it can be solved, a problem must be clearly defined.
One way to get the most out of life is to look upon it as an adventure.
Problems always appear big when incompetent people are working o them.
Some of us might find happiness if we would quit struggling so desperately for it.
Success seems to be largely a matter of hanging on after others have le go.
The person who can impose discipline on themselves is fit to disciplin others or can impose discipline on others.
The way to get ahead is to start now. If you start now, you will know  lot more next year that you don't know now and that you would not hav known next year if you had waited.
The wisdom of the wise and the experience of the ages is preserved into perpetuity by a nation's proverbs, fables, folk sayings and quotations.
Too many of us wait to do the perfect thing, with the result we do nothing. The way to get ahead is to start now. While many of us are waiting until conditions are just right before we go ahead, others are stumbling along, fortunately ignorant of the dangers that beset them. By the time we are, in our superior wisdom, decided to make a start, we discover that those who have gone fearlessly on before, have, in their blundering way, travelled a considerable distance. If you start now, you will know a lot next year that you dont know now, and that you will not know next year, if you wait.
Trust is a risk game. The leader must ante up first.
Those that succeed make an important thing of the immediate task.
Even a ten-thousand-foot dyk may collapse because of an ant-hole.
The greatest results in life are usually attained by simple means an the exercise of ordinary qualities. These may for the most part be summe up in these two -- common sense and perseverance.
Take time to marvel at the wonders of life.
A person who experiences no genuine satisfaction in life does not wan peace. People court war to escape meaninglessness and boredom to b relieved of fear and frustration.
Mental Health Rule 1. HAVE A HOBBY: Acquire pursuits which absorb your interest; sports an nature are best 2. DEVELOP A PHILOSOPHY: Adapt yourself to social and spiritua surroundings 3. SHARE YOUR THOUGHTS: Cultivate companionship in thought and in feeling Confide, confess, consult 4. FACE YOUR FEARS: Analyse them; daylight dismisses ghosts 5. BALANCE FANTASY WITH FACT: Dream but also do; wish but build; imagin but ever face reality 6. BEWARE ALLURING ESCAPES: Alcohol, opiates and barbital's may prov faithless friends 7. EXERCISE: Walk, swim, golf -- muscles need activity 8. LOVE, BUT LOVE WISELY: Sex is a flame which uncontrolled may scorch; properly guided, it will light the torch of eternity 9. DON'T BECOME ENGULFED IN A WHIRLPOOL OF WORRIES: Call early for help The doctor is ready for your rescue 10. TRUST IN TIME: Be patient and hopeful, time is a great therapist.
Knowledge is not a series of self-consistent theories that converge toward an ideal view; it is rather an ever increasing ocean of mutuall incompatible (and perhaps even incommensurable) alternatives, each singl theory, each fairy tale, each myth that is part of the collection forcin the others into greater articulation and all of them contributing, via thi process of competition to the development of our consciousness.
Anytime you try to teach the subject without teachers who love the subject, it is doomed to failure and is foolish thing to do.
In the face of the lack of direct mathematical demonstration, one mus be careful and thorough to make sure of the point, and one should make  perpetual attempt to demonstrate as much of the formula as possible Nevertheless, a very great deal more truth can become known than can b proven.
I think it is much more interesting to live not knowing than to hav answers that may be wrong. I don't feel frightened by not knowing things by being lost in a mysterious universe without having any purpose.
The first principle is that you must not fool yourself  and you are the easiest person to fool.
If we cannot live so as to be happy, let us at least live so as t deserve it.
Twelve Things to Remembe 1. The value of time 2. The success of perseverance 3. The pleasure of working 4. The dignity of simplicity 5. The worth of character 6. The power of kindness 7. The influence of example 8. The obligation of duty 9. The wisdom of economy 10. The virtue of patience 11. The improvement of talent 12. The joy of originating.
Adversity is the trial of principle. Without it, a person hardly know whether they are honest or not.
An educated person is one who knows a lot but says nothing about it.
Instead of trying so hard, as some of us do, to be happy, as if tha were the sole purpose of life, I would, if I were a boy again, try stil harder to deserve happiness.
Its a funny old world  a persons lucky if he gets out of it alive.
If a person's education is finished, they are finished.
Maturity is the capacity to endure uncertainty.
You have to master not only the art of listening to your head, you must also master listening to your heart and listening to your gut.
The world is disgracefully managed, one hardly knows to whom to complain.
Men wiser and more learned than I have discerned in history a plot,  rhythm, a predetermined pattern. These harmonies are concealed from me.  can see only one emergency following upon another as wave follows upo wave, only one great fact with respect to which, since it is unique, ther can be no generalisations, only one safe rule for the historian: that the should recognize in the development of human destinies the play of th contingent and the unforeseen.
Knowledge is a process of piling up facts; wisdom lies in their simplification.
The Moving Finger writes; and, having writ Moves on: nor all your piety nor wi Shall lure it back to cancel half a line Nor all your tears wash out a word of it.
With them the Seed of Wisdom did I sow And with mine own hand wrought to make it grow And this was all the Harvest that I reap'd  ' I came like water, and like the wind I go.'
My theory of writing I can sum up in one sentence. An author ought to write for the youth of his own generation, the critics of the next and the schoolmasters of ever after.
The test of a first-rate intelligence is the ability to hold two opposed ideas in the mind at the same time, and still retain the ability to function. One should, for example, be able to see that things are hopeless and yet be determined to make them otherwise.
Uncertainty and mystery are energies of life. Don't let them scare yo unduly, for they keep boredom at bay and spark creativity.
If there is to be peace in the world, peace must be established first in every human heart. All the trouble in the world is due too selfishness. It always has been and always will be.
Human life is a sad show, undoubtedly: ugly, heavy and complex. Art has no other end, for people of feeling, than to conjure away the burden and bitterness.
For lust of knowing what should not be known,       We take the Golden Road to Samarkand.
To a Poet a Thousand Years Henc I who am dead a thousands years And wrote this sweet archaic song Send you my words for messenger The way I shall not pass along I care not if you bridge the seas Or ride secure the cruel sky Or build consummate palace Of metal or of masonry But have you wine and music still And statues and a bright eyed love And foolish thoughts of good and ill And prayers to them who sit above How shall we conquer? Like a windfalls at eve our fancies blow And old Maeonides the blin Said it three thousand years ago O friend unseen, unborn, unknown Student of our sweet English tongue Read out my words at night, alone I was a poet, I was young Since I can never see your face And never shake you by the hand I send my soul through time and spac To greet you. You will understand.
We unconsciously learned a great deal from nature.
Energy is a valuable commodity not to be wasted on futile pursuits or neurotic obsessions.
Failures are few among people who have found work they like enough to d it well. You must invest money in your work; invest love in it too. lik your work. Like the materials and the tools with which you work. Like th people with whom you work. Like the place where you work. it pays well.
The most powerful weapon on earth is the human soul on fire.
Responsibility is the great developer.
Any one entrusted with power will abuse it if not also animated with th love of truth and virtue, no matter whether he be a prince, or one of th people.
Death does not take the wise person by surprise, they are alway prepared to leave.
People are so made that when anything fires their soul impossibilitie vanish.
A well-cultivated mind is made up of all the minds of preceding ages; it is only the one single mind educated by all previous time 
As both Aristotle and Thomas Aquinas insisted, wisdom is to be contrasted with cleverness because cleverness is the ability to take right steps to any ends, whereas wisdom is related only to good ends.
Enthusiasm is the electric current that keeps the engine of life goin at top speed.
J.P. Morgan, then past 70 was asked by the son of an eminent father wh he [Morgan] didn't retire. 'When did your father retire?' asked Mr Morgan without looking up from his desk. 'in 1902.' 'When did he die?' 'Oh, at th end of 1904.' 'Huh!' snapped Mr Morgan, 'If he had kept on working he woul have been alive still.' Work is God's best medicine. It is God's medicin for man.
Leaders in every walk of life act shortsightedly when they refuse t take suitable opportunity to afford the public a chance to get acquainte with them. Half this world's troubles spring from misunderstanding, fro mistrust, from secrecy. The remedy lies in letting in the daylight, i allowing the public to know how our leaders won their way to the front, i bringing home to the rank and file that those at the top had to work har and climb hard to get there. Quite a part of my time is devoted to ever purpose of trying to bring about a better understanding between the have and the have-nots...
People are wise who seek by every legitimate means to make all the money they can honestly, for money can do so many worthwhile things in the world, not merely for one's self but for others. But they are unmitigated  fools who imaging for a moment that it is more important to make money than to make it honestly.
Success is finding, or making, that position which enables you t contribute to the world the very greatest services of which you ar capable, through the diligent, persevering resolute cultivation of all th faculties God has endowed you with (or 'you have been given'? bl), a d doing it all with cheerfulness, scoring to allow difficulties or defeat to drive you to pessimism or despair. Success consists of being and doing not simply accumulating. The business people or business enterprises tha aspire to win the highest recognition for success must distinguis themselves, not by the magnitude of the profits, but by the value of th service provided.
Tell me how a young person spends their evenings and I will tell you how far they are likely to go in the world. The popular notion is that a youth's progress depends upon how they act during their working hours. It doesn't. It depends far more upon how they utilise their leisure ... if they spend it in harmless idleness, they are likely to be kept on the payroll, but that will be about all. If they diligently utilise their own time ... to fit themself for more responsible duties, then the greater responsibilities -- and greater rewards -- are almost certain to come to them.
The be-all and end-all of life should not be to get rich but to enrich the world
The human being who lives only for themselves finally reaps nothing but unhappiness. Selfishness corrodes. Unselfishness ennobles, satisfies. Don't put off the joy derivable from doing helpful, kindly things for others.
The person of fixed principles who has mapped out a straight course, and has the courage and self-control to adhere to it, does not find life complex. Complexities are all of our own making.
The size of your body is of little account; the size of your brain is of much account but it is the size of your heart is of the most account of all.
Ugliness, squalor are breeding grounds for revolution. Beauty i conducive to tranquillity, happiness. Beautifying of homes and places o worship began with the dawn of civilization. Beautifying of workplaces i only in its infancy. Yet, since people normally spend more than half o their waking hours at work, surely it is important that adequate attentio be devoted to elevating their working environment, whether office o factory or machine shop, mine or warehouse. Beautiful surroundings subtl encourage beautiful living. Drab surroundings, bad air, light, evoke ba reactions.
Upon our children -- how they are taught -- rests the fate -- or fortun -- of tomorrow's world.
Ability will never catch up with the demand for it.
Almost everyone wants to do what's fair, right and good, but knowin what it is, is the tough part.
Failure is success if we learn from it.
It's so  much easier to suggest solutions when you don't know too muc about the problem.
One often reads about the art of conversation -- how it's dying o what's needed to make it flourish, or how rare good ones are. But wouldn' you agree that the infinitely more valuable quality is a good listener?
One of the ceaseless wonders of the world: The power of a smile.
One who never asks either knows everything or nothing.
Retirement kills more people than hard work ever did.
Scientists ofttimes have the greatest faith in a higher power. The more they dig into, establish facts and figures, the more they marvel about the mystery of it all.
Success follows doing what you want to do. There is no other way to b successful.
The art of conversation lies in listening.
Those carried away by power are soon carried away. Might of the momen isn't a mite in Time
Those who enjoy responsibility usually get it; those who merely lik exercising authority usually lose it.
Those who enjoy responsibility are usually not taking it seriousl enough.
When things are bad we take comfort in the thought that they coul always get worse. And when they are, we find hope in the thought tha things are so bad they have to get better.
A great nation cannot abandon its responsibilities. Responsibilitie abandoned today return as more acute crises tomorrow.
I believe that truth is the glue that holds Governments together, no only our Government, but civilization itself.
Anyone who stops learning is old, whether at twenty or eighty. Anyon who keeps learning stays young. The greatest thing in life is to keep you mind young.
Economy has frequently nothing whatever to do with the amount of mone being spent, but with the wisdom used in spending it.
Enthusiasm is at the bottom of all progress. With it there is accomplishment. Without it there are only alibis.
History is more or less bunk. It's tradition. We don't want tradition We want to live in the present and the only history that is worth  tinker's damn is the history we make today.
I am looking for a lot of men who have an infinite capacit to not know what can't be done.
Nobody can really guarantee the future. The best we can do is size u the chances, calculate the risks involved, estimate our ability to dea with them, and then make our plans with confidence.
Nobody can think straight who does not work. Idleness warps the mind Thinking without constructive action becomes a disease.
The great trouble today is that there are too many people looking fo someone else to do something for them. The solution of most of our trouble to be found in everyone doing something for themselves.
The object of living is work, experience and happiness. There is joy i work. All that money can do is buy us some one else's work in exchange fo our own. There is no happiness except in the realization that we hav accomplished something.... Useful
There are two fools in this world. One is the millionaire who thinks that by hoarding money they can somehow accumulate real power, and the other is the penniless reformer who thinkers that if only they can take the money from one class and give it to another, all the worlds ills will be cured.
To do more for the world than the world does for you  that is success.
You cant build a reputation on what you are going to do.
You will find people who want to be carried on the shoulders of others, who think that the world owes them a living. They don't seem to see that we must all live together and pull together.
No society of nations, no people within a nation, no family can benefi through mutual aid unless good will exceeds ill will; unless the spirit o co-operation surpasses antagonism; unless we all see and act as though th other person's welfare determines our own welfare.
I hope you come to fin that which gives life a deep meaning for yo Something worth living for -- may be even worth dying for Something that energizes you, enthuses you enables you to keep moving ahead I can't tell you what it might be  that's for you to find, to choose, to love I can just encourage you to start looking and support you in the search.
Death destroys people: the idea of Death saves them.
It's the worst thing that can ever happen to you in all your life, an you've got to mind it .... They'll come saying, 'Bear up -- trust to time. No, no; they're wrong. Mind it.
Our life on earth is, and ought to be, material and carnal. But we hav not yet learned to manage our materialism and carnality properly; they ar still entangled with the desire for ownership.
She felt that those who prepared for all the emergencies of lif beforehand may equip themselves at the expense of joy.
Two cheers for democracy; one because it admits variety and two becaus it permits criticism. Two cheers are quite enough: there is no occasion t give three. Only Love the Beloved Republic deserves that.
Among many prerequisite, in a situation of conflict resolution, are meaningful dialogue, active listening, honest conversation, accepting the others view without agreeing or disagreeing, and acknowledging the others pain.
If we are to teach real peace in the world we shall have to begin with children.
In our interconnected world a future built on the foundations of mass poverty in the midst of plenty is economically inefficient, politically unsustainable and morally indefensible.
No peace without justice. No justice without forgiveness and no forgiveness without compassion.
The key to peace is reaching out and educating the youth, as they are the next generation who can ensure a more peaceful future for the world.
Today, for the first time in history, we have the means to end global poverty. All we need is will power and the resolve to do it.
Parents are only human, and have plenty of problems of their own. An most children can deal with an occasional outburst of anger as long as the have plenty of love and understanding to counter it But there are many parents whose negative patterns of behaviour ar consistent and dominant in a child's life. These are the parents who do th harm ... When these children (of 'toxic parents') become adults, they continu to bear burdens of guilt and inadequacy, making it extremely difficult fo them to develop a positive self-image. The resulting lack of confidence an self-worth can in turn color every aspect of their lives By now you may be thinking: 
Baloney. Your parents are accountable for what they did. Of course, you ar responsible for your adult life, but that life was largely shaped b experiences over which you had no control. The fact is You are NOT responsible for what was done to you as a defenceless child You ARE responsible for taking positive steps to do something about i now!
One never finds life worth living. One always has to make it wort living.
It is always the minorities that hold the key of progress; it is alway through those who are unafraid to be different that advance comes to th human race.
The search for truth is, as it always has been, the noblest expressio of the human spirit. Humanities insatiable desire for knowledge abou itself, about its environment and the forces by which they are surrounded gives life its meaning and purpose, and clothes it with final dignity .. And yet we know, deep in our hearts, that knowledge is not enough ... Unless we can anchor our knowledge to moral purposes, the ultimate resul will be dust and ashes -- dust and ashes that will bury our hopes an monuments beyond recovery.
When you realize the value of all life, you dwell less on what is past and concentrate more on the preservation of the future.
In short, there is no algorithm for life. We have to use our judgement continually to decide how best too act in a given state of affairs.
The best teachers of humanity are the lives of great people.
In essence, the renaissance is simply the green end of one o civilization's hardest winters.
Men love war because it allows them to look serious; because it is th only thing that stops women laughing at them.
I learn more from conversation than from all the books I ever read.
Take heed against setting your hearts upon riches, lest they become a curse and plague to you.
The ultimate expression of being fully human is to be open to the worl within and without: and to embrace all of life equally with reverence humility and compassion.
It is human nature to think wisely and act foolishly.
The first virtue of all really great people is that they are sincere They eradicate hypocrisy from their hearts. They bravely unveil thei weaknesses, their doubts, their defects. They are courageous. They boldl ride against prejudices. No civil, moral nor immoral power overawes them They love their fellows profoundly. They are generous. They allow thei hearts to expand. They have compassion for all forms of suffering. Humanit is the very foundation-stone of Genius.
They are wise who neither fear nor hope in the uncertain future.
To accomplish great things, we must not only act, but also dream, not only plan, but also believe.
A single sunbeam is enough to drive away many shadows.
God, Grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change, th courage to change the things I can. And the wisdom to know the difference.
Start by doing what is necessary, then what is possible, and suddenly you are doing the impossible.
Lord, make me an instrument of Your peace Where there is hatred, let me sow love Where there is injury, pardon Where there is doubt, faith Where there is despair, hope Where there is darkness, light And where there is sadness, joy O Divine Master, grant that I may not so much see To be consoled as to console To be understood as to understand To be loved as to love For it is in giving that we receive It is in pardoning that we are pardoned And it is in dying that we are born to eternal light.
Have patience with all things, but chiefly have patience with yourself Do not lose courage in considering your own imperfections, but instantl set about remedying them -- every day begin the task anew.
Nothing is more like a wise man than a fool who holds their tongue.
Our common future is badly served when the eloquence of our attacks o other people exceeds the energy with which we co-operate with them.
How wonderful it is that nobody need wait a single moment before starting to improve the world.
Ultimately there can be no freedom for self unless it is vouchsafed fo others; there can be no security where there is fear, and a democrati society presupposes confidence and candour in the relations of people wit one another and eager collaboration for the larger ends of life instead o the pursuit of petty, selfish or vainglorious aims.
Wisdom too often never comes, and so one ought not to reject it merely because it comes late.
Freedom is not the last word. Freedom is only part of the story and half of the truth. The positive aspect of freedom is responsibleness.
Ultimately, people should not ask what the meaning of his life is, but rather must recognize that it is those who are asked. In a word, each person is questioned by life; and we can only answer to life by answering for our own life; to life we can only respond by being responsible.
A wise person will desire no more than what they may get justly, use soberly, distribute cheerfully, and leave contently.
Time is money.
Do'st thou love life, then do not squander time, for that's the stuf life is made of.
Happiness consists more in small conveniences or pleasures that occu every day, than in great pieces of good fortune that happen but seldom to  person in the course of their life.
Happiness is produced not so much by great pieces of good fortune that seldom happen as by the little advantages that occur every day.
Hes a fool who cannot conceal their wisdom.
In dealings between people, truth, sincerity and integrity are of th utmost importance to the felicity of life.
I never knew a man who was good at making excuses who was good a anything else.
Lifes tragedy is that we get old too soon and wise too late.
Money can help you get medicines but not health. Money can help you to get soft pillows, but not sound sleep. Money can help you get material comforts, but not eternal bliss. Money can help you get ornaments, but not beauty. Money will help you to get an electric earphone, but not natural hearing. Attain the supreme wealth, wisdom, and you will have everything.
Nothing is more fatal to health than an over care of it.
Remember not only to say the right thing in the right place, but fa more difficult still, to leave unsaid the wrong thing at the temptin moment.
Success has ruin'd many a person.
Tell me and I forget Teach me and I remember Involve me and I learn.
The doors of wisdom are never shut.
The doorstep to the temple of wisdom is a knowledge of our own ignorance.
The heart of a fool is in their mouth, but the mouth of the wise person is in their heart.
The noblest question in the world is: What good may I do in it?
There are two ways of being happy. We may either diminish our wants o augment our means -- either will do -- the result is the same. If you ar wise you will do both at the same time; and if you are very wise you wil do both in such a way as to augment the general happiness of society.
There is too much stress today on material things. I try to teach m children not so much the value of cents, but a sense of values.
The use of money is all the advantage there is in having money.
Want of care does us more damage than want of knowledge.
What maintains one vice would bring up two children.
While we may not be able to control all that happens to us, we can control what happens inside us.
My people and I have come to an agreement which satisfies us both. The are to say what they please, and I am to do what I please.
The saying that knowledge is power is not quite true. Used knowledge i power and more than power. It is money, and service, and better living fo our fellow human beings, and a hundred other good things. But mer knowledge, left unused, has not power in it.
Without a vision of tomorrow, hope is impossible.
A hundred years is not much, but never is a long time.
One must learn to be bored.
Creative minds have always been known to survive any kind of ba training.
Being entirely honest with oneself is a good exercise.
I am not really a man of science, not an experimenter, and not a thinker. I am nothing but, by temperament, a conquistador  an adventurer, if you want to translate the term  with the curiosity, the boldness and the tenacity that belongs to that type of being.
People should not strive to eliminate their complexes, but to get i accord with them; they are legitimately what directs their contacts wit the world.
The great question which I have not been able to answer, despite m thirty years of research into the feminine soul, is 'What does a woma want?'
Why fear death? It is the most beautiful adventure in life.
Work has a greater effect than any other technique of living in th direction of binding the individual more closely to reality; in their work at least, they are securely attached to a part of reality, the huma community.
Part of the American dream is to live long and die young.
Success is based on anything but internal fulfilment is bound to be empty.
What kind of society isn't structured on greed? The problem of socia organization is how to set up an arrangement under which greed will do th least harm; capitalism is that kind of a system.
Technology ... the knack of so arranging the world that we need no experience it.
Love is the only sane and satisfactory answer to the problem of huma existence.
A person's main task in life is to give birth to themself, to becom what they potentially are. The most important product of their effort i their own personality.
 .... Love is not primarily a relationship to a specific person, it i an attitude, an orientation of character which determines the relatednes of a person in the world as a whole, not toward one 'object of love.'
Only people who have faith in themselves are able to be faithful t others.
The danger of the past was that people became slaves. The danger of th future is that they may become robots.
The lust for power is not rooted in strength but in weakness.
The mother-child relationship is paradoxical and, in a sense, tragic. I requires the most intense love on the mother's side, yet this very lov must help the child grow away from the mother and to become full independent.
The quest for certainty blocks the search for meaning. Uncertainty i the very condition to impel people to unfold their powers.
There is no meaning to life except the meaning people give their life b the unfolding of their powers.
Americans are like rich parents who wishes they knew how to give thei child the hardships that made them rich.
Don't ever take a fence down until you know why it was put up.
Education is the ability to listen to almost anything without losin your temper or your self-confidence.
Half the world is composed of people who have something to say an can't, and the other half who have nothing to say and keep saying it.
It should be the pleasure of a poem itself to tell how it can. Th figure a poem makes. It begins in delight and ends in wisdom. The figure i the same as for love.
The bible should be taught so early and so thoroughly that it sink straight to the bottom of the mind where everything that comes along ca settle on.
The human landscape of the New World shows a conquest of nature by a intelligence that does not love it.
The most technologically efficient machine that man has ever invente is the book.
High on the agenda for the 21st century will be the need to restore som kind of tragic consciousness.
 We must dare to think 'unthinkable' thoughts. We must learn to explor all the options and possibilities that confront us in a complex and rapidl changing world. We must learn to welcome and not to fear the voices o dissent. We must dare to think about the 'unthinkable things' because whe things become unthinkable, thinking stops and action becomes mindless.
Men for the sake of getting a livin forget to live.
Dont try to make me consistent. I am learning all the time.
Instead of thinking about: How do I earn a living? ... How do I survive ... we ought to say, what is it that my experiences teaches me that coul bring advantage to all humanity?
Now there is one outstandingly important fact regarding Spaceship Earth and that is that no instruction book came with it.
There are no human passengers on spaceship earth; everyone is crew.
Of course, our failures are a consequence of many factors, but possibly one of the most important is the fact that society operates on the theory that specialization is the key to success, not realizing that specialization precludes comprehensive thinking.
You never change things by fighting the existing reality. To change something, build a new model that makes the existing model obsolete.
When individuals join in a cooperative venture, the power generated far exceeds what they could have accomplished acting individually.
A danger foreseen is half avoided.
If the wicked flourish, and thou suffer, be not discouraged. They ar fatted for destruction: thou are dieted for health.
The great end of life is not knowledge, but action
 'Tis not knowing much, but what is useful, that makes a wise man.
Zeal is fit only for the wise, but is found mostly in fools.
If we always live our lives with a view to the worst possible outcome o anything, then we will become a much diminished society. Every huma endeavour has risk attached.
Trad As we pay others, so we are paid Life gives us back just what we give And so, goodwill controls success But trade that we may truly live Sales may be made in money, yes But they are always made to people And so goodwill controls success Bring folks back to buy again Those profit most whose every sale Creates a friend whose kindly though Serves to perpetuate the tale Of what and where and why they bought.
Leadership is now a state of mind not a position.
 A wise mans question contains half the answer.
In seeking wisdom, the first step is silence: the second, listening the third, remembering; the fourth, practicing, the fifth, teaching others.
The beginning of wisdom is to desire it.
If something goes wrong, it is more important to talk about who is goin to fix it, than who is to blame.
 ... and what can we learn to make it less likely t happen again in the future...
We can not predict but only invent the future.
Socrates teaches that the important thing is the knowledge that one does not know.
Power doesn't corrupt people; people corrupt power.
It is good to dream, but it is better to dream and work. Faith i mighty, but action with faith is mightier. Desiring is helpful, but wor and desire are invincible.
One of the greatest pieces of economic wisdom is to know what you dont know.
People are the common denominator of progress. So ... no improvement i possible with unimproved people, and advance is certain when people ar liberated and educated. It would be wrong to dismiss the importance o roads, railroads, power plants, mills and the other familiar furniture o economic development .... But we are coming to realize ... that there i certain sterility in economic monuments that stand alone in a sea o illiteracy. Conquest of illiteracy comes first.
People of privilege will always risk their complete destruction rathe than surrender any material part of their advantage.
The greater the wealth, the thicker will be the dirt.
Employment is nature's physician, and is essential to human happiness.
All truths are easy to understand once they are discovered; the point is to discover them.
If you do not think about the future, you cannot have one.
Great ability without discretion comes almost invariably to a tragi end.
In general, whatever experience you have whether dreams or real If you cling to them as real, they will becom an obstacle If you know them as illusion, they become the path.
The power to question is the basis of all human progress.
There are two kinds of people, those who do the work and those who tak the credit. Try to be in the first group there is less competition there.
You cannot shake hands with a clenched fist.
All humanity is one undivided and indivisible family, and each one of u is responsible for the misdeeds of all the others.
All we can do is serve and leave it at that.
 Almost anything you do will seem insignificant but it is very importan that you do it ... You must be the change you wish to see in the world.
As human beings, our greatness lies not so much in being able to remak the world -- that is the myth of the atomic age -- as in being able t remake ourselves.
Be the change you want to see in the world.
Civilization, in the real sense of the term, consists not in th multiplication but in the deliberate and voluntary restriction of wants This alone promotes happiness and contentment, and increases the capacit for service.
Every living faith must have within itself the power of rejuvenation if it is to live.
Formally, human beings were made slaves under physical compulsion; no they are enslaved by the temptation of money and the luxuries that mone can buy.
Gandhi's Seven Social Sins POLITICS Without Principle WEALTH Without Wor COMMERCE Without Moralit EDUCATION Without Characte PLEASURE Without Conscienc SCIENCE Without Humanit WORSHIP Without Sacrifice
Policies without principles' Pleasure without conscienc Wealth without wor Knowledge without characte Commerce without moralit Science without humanit Worship without sacrifice.
Happiness is when what you think, what you say and what you do are in harmony.
Increase of material comforts, it many be generally laid down does no in any way whatsoever contribute to moral growth.
I have learned through bitter experience the one supreme lesson which i to conserve my anger, and as heat conserved is transmitted into energy even so our anger controlled can be transmitted into a power that can mov the world.
Intolerance betrays want of faith in one's cause.
I shall pass through this world but once. Any good that I can do or an kindness that I can show to any human being, let me do it now. Let me no defer or neglect it, for I shall not pass this way again.
It is possible for a single individual to defy the whole might of a unjust empire to save their honour, their religion, their soul and lay th foundation for that empire's fall or its regeneration.
It is unwise to be too sure of ones own wisdom. It is healthy to be reminded that the strongest might weaken and the wisest might err.
Keep my word positive. Words become my behaviors. Keep my behaviours positive. Behaviors become my habits. Keep my habits positive. Habits become my values. Keep my values positive. Values become my destiny.
Live as if you were to die tomorrow. Learn as if were to live forever.
Power, privilege, and position are great resources. Use them well. D not become attached to them; for when we do, we begin to lose our mora fiber.
Strength does not come from physical capacity. It comes from a indomitable will.
The difference between what we do and what we are capable of doing woul suffice to solve most of the world's problems.
The future depends on what we do in the present.
The purpose of life to is to know oneself. And in order to do that we must learn to identify with all that lives.
The moment the slave resolves that they will no longer be a slave thei fetters fall ... freedom and slavery are mental states.
The true source of rights is duty. If we all discharge our duties rights will not be far to seek. If leaving duties unperformed we run afte rights, they will escape us like a will-o'-the-wisp. The more we pursu them, the further they will fly.
Rights that do not flow from duty well performed are not wort having.
The world has enough for everyone's need, but not enough for everyone' greed.
They cannot take away our self-respect if we do not give it to them.
Those who know how to think need no teachers.
To believe what has not occurred in history will not occur at all, is t argue disbelief in the dignity of the human race.
We dont receive wisdom; we must discover it for ourselves after a journey that no one can take for us or space us.
Western man has one foot in the past, one foot in the future and pisse on the present.
With each true friendship, we build more firmly the foundation on whic the peace of the whole world rests.
You may never know what results come from your action. But if you do nothing, there will be no results.
You must be the change you wish to see in the world.
You must not lose faith in humanity. Humanity is an ocean, if a fe drops of the ocean are dirty, the ocean does not become dirty.
The difference between a smart person and a wise one, is that a smart one knows what to say, a wise one knows whether or not to say it.
Success is getting what you want, happiness is wanting what you get.
There are men and women who make the world better just by being the kind of people they are.
If you have some respect for people as they are, you can be mor effective in helping them to become better than they are.
Life isnt a mountain that has a summit. Nor a game that has a final score. Life is an endless unfolding, and if we wish it to be, an endless process of self-discovery, an endless and unpredictable dialogue between our own potentialities and the life situations in which we find ourselves.
The best kept secret in America today is that people would rather work hard for something they believe in than enjoy a pampered idleness.
The society which scorns excellence in plumbing because plumbing is  humble activity and tolerates shoddiness in philosophy because it is a exalted activity will have neither good plumbing nor good philosophy Neither its pipes not its theories will hold water.
The ultimate goal of the educational system is to shift to th individual the burden of pursuing their education.
When people are serving, life is no longer meaningless.
If wrinkles must be written upon our brows, let them not be written upo the heart. The spirit should not grow old.
We do not need more people. We do not need more money. We do not nee more materials. What we do need is something to give a person a new spiri ... The problem of today is the people of today. It is people that make th times and not the times that make people. The trouble is with peopl themselves.
Fear grows out of things we think; it lives in our minds. Compassio grows out of the things we are, and lives in our hearts.
Like an ability or a muscle, hearing your inner wisdom is strengthened by doing it.
At every moment of my life there open before me diverse possibilities:  can do this or that. If I do this. I shall be A the moment after; if I d that I shall be B .... People must not only make themselves; the weighties thing they have to do is to determine what they are going to be.
Civilization is nothing else but the attempt to reduce force to bein the last resort.
Life means to have something definite to do  a mission to fulfil  and in the measure in which we avoid something, we make it empty. Human life, by its very nature, has to be dedicated to something.
One age cannot be completely understood if all the others are no understood. The song of history can only be sung as a whole.
Be great ancestors to the generations yet to come.
Collecting data is only the first step toward wisdom, but sharing data is the first step toward community.
Nothing is art if it does not come from nature, as from nature come the most beautiful and extraordinary shapes. Furthermore, nature is the masterpiece of the Creator.
In order to cause a shadow to disappear you must shine light on it.
Like the proverbial pebble dropped into a still pond, the shifts o consciousness we make in our personal lives send out tiny but importan waves that ripple over the surface of the whole.
The luxury of doing good surpasses every other personal enjoyment.
It is the most persistent and greatest human adventure in human history this search to understand the universe, how it works and where it cam from.
All religions teach us to help people whenever we can. All religion teach us to play fair and not to hit or kill or steal or cheat. Al religions teach us we should be forgiving and cut people some slack whe they mess up, because someday we will mess up too. All religions teach u to love our families, to respect our parents and to make new families whe we grow up. Religions all over the world teach the same right way to live.
Leadership cannot be taught; it can be learned.
True friendship comes when the silence between tow people is comfortable.
A person may be allowed to change their opinions never their principles
Social progress makes the well-being of all more and more the business of each.
Those who by any exertion of mind or body add to the aggregate o enjoyable wealth, increases the sum of human knowledge or gives to huma life higher elevation or greater fullness -- they are, in the large meaning of the words, a producer, a working man, a labourer, and ar honestly earning honest wages.
We cannot too often tell ourselves that the real wealth of a nation - the only enduring, worthwhile wealth -- is in the spiritual, mental an physical health of the citizens, and that in a democracy we are al trustees.
To understand and to be understood makes our happiness on earth.
What is the use of running when we are not on the right road?
I happened to be the only child. So it wasnt so much what I wanted from life as my responsibilities.
I leave everything to the young people. You've got to give the youn authority and responsibility if you're going to build up an organization otherwise you'll always be the boss yourself and you won't leave anythin behind you.
Trust gives me my freedom and my fear takes it away.
The winds and waves are always on the side of the ablest navigators.
One doesn't discover new lands without consenting to lose sight of th shore for a very long time.
The world will be saved by one or two people.
A little knowledge that acts is worth infinitely more than muc knowledge that is idle.
A wise person approaches with their touch to light up the path of th human race.
Nature reaches out to us with welcoming arms and bids us enjoy he beauty.
Seek counsel of the aged, for their eyes have looked on the faces of th years and their ears have hearkened to the voices of life.
Teachers ... If they are wise do not bid you enter the house of thei wisdom, but rather they lead you to (and even beyond) the threshold of you own mind.
The true wealth of a nation lies not in its gold or silver but in it learning, wisdom and in the uprightness of its children.
When you work you are a flute through whose heart the whispering of th hours turns to music. To love life through labor is to be intimate wit life's inmost secret. All work is empty save when there is love, for wor is love made visible.
Will ever the day come when the wise link the joy of knowledge t youth's dream.
Wisdom stands at the turn in the road and calls upon us publicly, but we consider it false and despise its adherents.
Wisdom is not in words; Wisdom is meaning within words.
Work is love made visible. And if you cannot work with love but onl with distaste, it is better that you should leave your work and sit at th gate of the temple and take alms of those who work with joy.
You give but little when you give of your possessions. It is when yo give of yourself that you truly give.
Your children are not children They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself They came through you but not from yo And though they are with you yet they belong not to you You may give them your love but not your thoughts For they have their own thoughts You may house their bodies but not their souls For their souls dwell in the house of tomorrow, which you canno visit, not even in your dreams You may strive to be like the, but seek not to make them like you For life goes not backward or tarries with yesterday.
Your daily life is your temple and your religion Whenever you enter into it take with you your all.
Your pain is the breaking of the shell that encloses you understanding.
The future is already here, its just not evenly distributed.
Believe those who are seeking the truth; doubt those who find it.
Everything has been said before, but since nobody listens we have t keep going back and beginning all over again
When will they ever learn
In order to be utterly happy the only thing necessary is to refrain from comparing this moment with other moments in the past, which I often did not fully enjoy because I was comparing them with other moments of the future.
One doesn't discover new lands without consenting to loose sight of th shore for a very long time.
You cannot discover new oceans unless you have the courage to los sight of the shore.
It is not only our errors which ruin us, but our way of conductin ourselves after committing them.
The employer generally gets the employees they deserve.
The ability to think straight, some knowledge of the past, some visio of the future, some skill to do useful service, some urge to fit tha service into the wellbeing of the community -- these are the most vita things education must try to produce.
People must work. That is certain as the sun. But they may wor grudgingly or they may work gratefully; they may work as a person, or the may work as a machine. There is no work so rude that they may not exult it no work so impassive, that they may not breathe a soul into it; no work s dull that they may not enliven it.
By words we learn thoughts, and by thoughts we learn life.
For the person sound in body and serene in mind there is no such thin as bad weather.
Whenever you are too selfishly looking out for your own interest, yo are only one person working for you -- yourself. When you help a doze other people with their problems, you have a dozen people working wit you.
How little do politics affect the life, the moral life of a nation. On single good book influences the people a vast deal more.
The Human Race, itself, is the crowning wonder of creation; the study o its nature the noblest study the world affords.
The proper function of a government is to make it easy for people to do good, and difficult for them to do evil.
To comprehend a person's life, it is necessary to know not merely wha they do, but what they purposely leave undone. There is a limit to the wor that can be got out of a human body or a human brain, and those are wis people who waste no energy on pursuits for which they are not fitted an they are still wiser who, from among the things that they can do well choose and resolutely follow the best.
We look forward to the time when the Power of Love will replace the Lov of Power. Then will our world know the blessings of Peace.
You cannot fight against the future -- time is on our side.
In life as in football, you won't go far unless you know where the goa posts are.
It doesn't take great people to do things, but it is doing things tha make them great.
Knowledge doesn't pay -- it is what you do with it that matters.
Success is simple. Do what's right, the right way, at the right time.
The trouble with the future is that is usually arrives before were ready for it.
The true measure of a person is not the number of servants they have but the number of people they serve.
 You'll break the worry habit the day you decide you can meet and maste the worst that can happen to you.
 You're immature if you can't accept reality or responsibility.
People are afraid of the future, of the unknown. If a person faces u to it, and takes the dare of the future, they can have some control ove their destiny. That's an exciting idea to me, better than waiting wit everybody else to see what's going to happen.
We have an infinite amount to learn both from nature and from eac other.
Just remember  when you think all is lost, the future remains.
Remember, no matter how bad things get in life, we always have a choice. We get to choose our attitude. And positive wins every time.
The souls that perpetually overflow with kindness and sympathy wil always be cheerful.
All truly wise thoughts have been thought already thousands of time; bu to make them truly ours, we must think them over again honestly till the take firm root in our personal experience.
Daring ideas are like chessmen moved forward. They may be beaten but they may start a winning game.
Everywhere, we learn only from those whom we love.
How shall we learn to know ourselves? By reflection? Never; but onl through action. Strive to do thy duty; then shalt thou know what is i thee.
Ignorant people raise questions that wise people answered a thousand years ago.
It is not just as we take it This mystical world of ours Life's field will yield as we make i A harvest of thorns or of flowers.
Kindness is the golden chain by which society is bound together.
Knowing is not enough; we must apply. Willing is not enough; we must do
Let everyone sweep in front of their own door and the whole world wil be clean.
Lose This day Loiterin Lose this day loitering - 'twill be the same stor To-morrow - and the next more dilatory Each indecision brings its own delays And days are lost lamenting o'er lost days Are you in earnest? seize this very minute  Boldness has genius, power and magic in it Only engage, and then the mind grows heated  Begin it, and then the work will be completed!
Nine requisites for contented living Health enough to make work a pleasure Wealth enough to support your needs Strength enough to battle with difficulties and overcom them Grace enough to confess your sins and forsake them Patience enough to toil until some good is accomplished Charity enough to see some good in your neighbour Love enough to move you to be useful and helpful to others Faith enough to make real the things that are important Hope enough to remove all anxious fears concerning th future.
Nothing is worth more than this day.
The best of all governments is that which teaches us to govern ourselves.
Things which matter most must never be at the mercy of things which matter least.
 Those who are plenteously provided for from within need but little from without.
To make sacrifices in big things is easy, but to make sacrifices i little things is what we are seldom capable of.
Unlike grownups, children have little need to deceive themselves.
We can really respect a man only if he doesnt always look out for himself.
 We must not hope to be mowers, And to gather the ripe gold ears Unless we have first been sowers And watered the furrows with tears.
Whatever liberates our spirit without giving us self-control i disastrous.
Whatever you can do,  or dream you can, begin it Boldness has genius, power and magic in it Begin it now.
What one doesn't understand one doesn't possess.
Modern humanity is rapidly destroying the natural world on which i depends for survival. If current trends persist, in a few decades th biosphere will cease to be capable of supporting complex forms of life.
Tolerance is a tremendous virtue, but the immediate neighbours o tolerance are apathy and weakness.
You can preach a better sermon with your life than with your lips.
From concentration comes the birth of wisdom. Meditation begins with calming the mind and collecting the attention. In addition to the feelings of restfulness and peace, the state of concentration also becomes the basis for deepening insight and wisdom. We find ourselves opening to the worlds suffering as well as to its great beauty.
Respect leads to caring  a quality of impeccability in what we do. Respect and faith nourish each other and give birth to many skilful actions. As we foster the quality of respect in our lives, we can also begin to see the world in a different light. The tone of caring that arises from giving respect can transform how we interact with society. We begin to explore the possibilities of service, of taking an active role in seeing what needs doing and lending our energy to those endeavours. Compassion motivates us to act, and wisdom ensures the means are effective.
From success you get lots of things, but not that great inside thing tha love brings.
Native Americans used to make decisions based on how it would affect seven generations ahead. How many of our politicians who vote against environmental protection are thinking of their children? Their grandchildren? Either they are stupid or they do not care about children.
Look to the past for guidance into the future.
Enjoyment is not a goal, it is a feeling that accompanies importan ongoing activity.
Remember that happiness is a way of travel -- not a destination.
The present-day global landscape is one of profound crisis, which coul end either in the death of humankind or in the breakthrough to a ne civilization .... It is up to all of us who live today on this planet ....
The real definition of loneliness .. is to live without responsibility.
The surest way to lose the truth is to pretend that one already wholly possesses it.
Only mothers really think of the future  because they give birth to it in their children.
We give birth to the future in our children.
When work is pleasure, life is a joy. When work is duty, life i slavery
When duties are pleasures does not that result in life really havin joy and meaning???
When the power of love overcomes the love of power then there will b true peace.
The very essence of human progress is applying new knowledge in new ways, continuously making the old way of doing things obsolete. Organizations dont make progress, people do. The organization is just a vehicle for human cooperation. Its form adapts as the needs of the people adapt, and peoples needs change with the progressive acquisition of new knowledge.
The center of human nature is rooted in ten thousand ordinary acts of kindness that define our days.
Wisdom is the harmony between our mind and the laws of reality. Moralit is the harmony between our convictions and our actions. Concentration i the harmony between our feelings, our knowledge and our will. The unity o all our creative forces in the experience of a higher reality.
A weak spirit does more harm than a weak body.
A wise person gets more use from their enemies than a fool from thei friends.
Hope is a great falsifier of truth.
A wise person is always consistent in their qualities.
Even knowledge has to be in fashion and where it is not it is wise t affect ignorance.
It is a proof of wisdom to remain clear sighted during rage.
Knowledge without wisdom is double folly.
Many would be wise if they did not think themselves wise.
Some are born wise and with this natural advantage enter upon their studies with half their journey to success already mastered.
Sometimes it proves the highest understanding not to understand.
The care of the wise must guard against the snare of the wicked.
There is no one who has not a counter balance to their most conspicuous merit, and if it is nourished it may grow to be a tyrant..
The wise do not leave it to chance. Luck can be assisted by care.
The wise person does at once what a fool does later.
The wise person hopes for the best but always expects the worst and receives what comes with equanimity.
Three things make a person happy: health, holiness and wisdom.
Wise people appreciate everyone, for they see the good in each.
Without courage, wisdom bears no fruit.
You must pass through the circumference of time before arriving at the centre of opportunity.
People are not great because of their technique; they are great becaus of their passion.
There is a vitality, alife force, a quickening, that is trnaslated through you into action, and because there is only one of you in all time, this expression is unique. And if you block it, it will never exist through any medium, and be lost. it is not your business to determine how good it is, or how it compares with other expressions. It is your business to keep it yours, clearly and directly.
You can have anything you want if you want it desperately enough. Yo must want it with an exuberance that erupts through the skin and joins th energy that created the world.
I am a pessimist because of intelligence, but an optimist of will.
Our children and grandchildren  and unborn generations to come  are depending on us . To make the wise decisions that will determine their future. The choice is in our hands.
I don't really feel my poems are mine at all. I didn't create them ou of nothing. I owe them to my relations with other people.
A bore is a person who deprives you of solitude without providing you with company.
Human beings who leave behind them no great achievements, but only a sequence of small kindnesses, have not had wasted lives.
The real challenge in life is not just getting what you want but continuing to want what you have.
As for boys and girls, it is one of the sorriest mistakes to talk down to them: almost always your lad of fifteen thinks more simply, more fundamentally than you do; and what they accept as good coin is not facts or precepts, but feelings and convictions.
A society grows great when olf men plants tress whose shade they know they shall never sit in.
Better a drop of wisdom than an ocean of gold.
The believer is happy, the doubter wise.
The darkest hour in the history of any young person is when they sit down to study how to get money without honestly earning it.
We're reaching the point where the change process becomes much faste ... it may have taken us ten years to get to that point, but from there on it isn't ten more years to get the same distance. It's more like in on year, we've changed more than we did in ten and the next year we'r changing the same degree in three months.
Most people say that as you get old, you have to give up things. I think you get old because you give up things.
Despair is the price one pays for setting oneself an impossible aim.
Morality comes with the sad wisdom of age. When the sense of curiosity has withered.
The truth has never been of any real value to any human being  it is a symbol for mathematicians and philosophers to pursue. In human relations kindness and lies are worth a thousand truths.
Both teaching and rational inquiry, at their creative and inspired best thus lead us to the very threshold of ultimate mystery and induce in us  sense of profound humility and awe.
Responsibility ... requires that a person think, speak and act as i personally accountable to all who may be affected by his or her thoughts words and deeds ... Awareness is important ... Am I moving in the righ direction? Is my sense of responsibility growing, deepening, becomin sharper and more insistent? ... a sense of responsibility is an attitude,  feeling.
If you want to understand yourselves, (find a way to) be yourselves and you will.
Security is when everything is settled, when nothing can happen to you; security is the denial of life.
The only causes of regret are laziness, outbursts of temper, hurting others, prejudice, jealousy and envy.
The human race has had long experience and a fine tradition in surviving adversity. But we now face a task for which we have little experience, the task of surviving prosperity.
Be not anxious about what you have, but about what you are.
Creating a positive future begins in human conversation. The simplest and most powerful investment any member of a community or an organization may make in renewal is to begin talking with other people as though the answers mattered.
I expect to pass through this world but once. Any good therefore that I can do, or any kindness that I can show to my fellow-creature, let me do it now. Let me not defer or neglect it, for I shall not pass this way again.
There is no such thing as the pursuit of happiness, but there is the discovery of joy.
You miss 100% of the shots you never take.
The function of values is to give us the illusion of purpose in life.
It is our values that give live meaning.
You are only young once, but you can be immature forever.
Democracy has survived because time and again it has proved, unde stress, its ability to harmonise and make productive, in every sphere o thought and action, the individual and the social instincts innate in man In these respects it has demonstrated its superiority over all othe political philosophies. All try to draw the line between the opportunitie and responsibilities of the individual and those of society, but none draw it so subtly, in accordance with reality, as democracy.
Not to know certain things is a great part of wisdom.
There is at least one point in history of any company when you have to change dramatically to rise to the next level of performance. Miss that moment - and you start to decline.
Without focus, the resources and energy of the organisation will be spread a mile wide and they will be an inch deep. If you are wrong you will die. But most organisations dont die because they are wrong; most die because they dont commit themselves.
The Millennium coincides with the base of the exponential growth of al humanities measures and adventures. Lets look upwards and enjoy the rid but make sure no one falls off.
To teach people to read without teaching them not to believe everything they read is only to prepare them for a new slavery.
The best of all the preachers are the people who live their creeds.
The Revolution is made by people, but they must forge thei revolutionary spirit from day to day.
You can pretend to be serious, but you can't pretend to be witty.
Whatever your past has been, you have a spotless future.
It is one thing to recognize the right - and responsibility - of parent to educate their children as members of a family, and quite another t claim this right of familial education extends to a right of parents t insulate their children from exposure to ways of life or thinking tha conflicts with their own. Children are not simply the property o responsibility of their parents, they are also our future citizens.
Don't worry, Don't hurry You're only here for a short visit So be sure to stop and small the flowers.
Smile to yourself until you have warmed your own heart with the sunshin of your cheery countenance. Then go out -- and radiate your smile.
We do not inherit this land from our ancestors; we borrow it from ou children.
From the fact that there are 400,000 species of beetles on this planet but only 8,000 species of mammals, he (Haldane) concluded that the Creator if He exists, has a special preference for beetles.
Now, my own suspicion is that the universe is not only queerer than w suppose, but queerer than we can suppose ... I suspect that there are mor things in heaven and earth than are dreamed of, or can be dreamed of, i any philosophy.
I am only one, but I am still one I cannot do everything but still I am one I cannot do everything but still I can do something. I will not refuse to do something that I can do.
Ability is useless, unless it is used.
Planning for happiness is rarely successful. Happiness just happens.
People who look down on other people don't end up being looked up to.
There's no such thing as not enough time if you're doing what you wan to do.
There's no such thing as enough time if you are doing what you wan to
When a person is wrong and won't admit it, they always gets angry.
Anger is seldom without argument but seldom with a good one.
Education is what remains when we have forgotten all that we have bee taught.
Service is the rent that we pay for our room on earth.
The best way to suppose what may come, is to remember what is past.
They who are of the opinion that money will do everything, may very wel be suspected to do everything for money.
Those that leaveth nothing to chance will do few things ill, but the will do very few things.
True merit, like a deep river, the deeper it is, the less noise i makes.
The trouble with mankind in general is that it has not yet grown up.
Every day is a little life, and our whole life is but a day repeated Therefore live every day as if it would be the last. Those that dare lose  day, are dangerously prodigal; those that dare misspend it are desperate.
Liberty is not an absolute; indeed, granting total freedom to on individual could theoretically result in the restriction of freedom fo everyone else. Social control is essential if rights are to have meaning.
There are no great men, only great challenges that ordinary men are forced by circumstances to meet.
In framing a government which is to be administered by people over othe people, the great difficulty lies in this: You must first enable th government to control the governed, and in the next place oblige it t control itself.
When the freedom they wish for most was the freedom from responsibility then Athens ceased to be free and never was free again.
Never look down to test the ground before taking your next step; onl those who keep their eye fixed on the far horizon find their righ road.
In the last analysis it is our conception of death which decides our answers to all the questions that life puts to us.
Only those who justify it every day, deserve power.
 To let (yourself) be bound by a duty from the moment you see it approaching is a part of the integrity that alone justifies responsibility.
We cannot wait for great visions from great people, for they are i short supply at the end of history. It is up to us to light our own smal fires in the darkness.
Beginning the day, I see that life is a miracle. Attentive to eac moment, I keep my mind clear like a calm river.
Do we need to make a special effort to enjoy the beauty of the blue sky Do we have to practice to be able to enjoy it? No, we just enjoy it Each second, each minute of our lives can be like this Wherever we are, any time, we have the capacity to enjoy the sunshine the presence of each other, even the sensation of our breathing We don't need to go to China to enjoy the blue sky We don't have to travel into the future to enjoy our breathing We can be in touch with these things right now.
The present moment is the only moment available to us, and it is the door to all moments.
Touching the present moment is the door to everything.
Understanding is the fruit of looking deeply ... This present momen contains the past and the future. The secret of transformation ... lies i our handling of this very moment.
Walk slowly. Don't rush. Each step brings you to the best moment of your life, the present moment.
When we look deep into the heart of a flower, we see clouds, sunshine minerals, time, the earth, and everything else in the cosmos in it. Withou clouds there could be no rain, and there would be no flowers.
Higher education must lead the march back to the fundamentals of huma relationships, to the old discovery that is ever new, that people, do no live by bread alone.
Never be afraid to sit awhile and think
The greatest truths are the simplest; and so are the greatest people.
Books give not wisdom where not was before. But where some is there reading makes more.
It would indeed be a tragedy if the history of the human race proved t be nothing more than the story of an ape playing with a box of matches on  petrol dump.
Business has become, in this last half century, the most powerfu institution on the planet. The dominant institution in any society needs t take responsibility for the whole ...
Throughout history, the really fundamental changes in societies hav come about not from dictates of government and the results of battles bu through vast numbers of people changing their minds -- sometimes only  little bit.
We are alienated from nature .... We are alienated from our work, sinc that has in so many cases become devoid of meaning. We are alienated fro each other ... And, being deeply confused about our own being, we ar alienated from ourselves.
When historians look back on the 20th century they will say that th most significant change was the change of the mind, a quiet, but pervasiv change of mind.
There are only two worries in this world: The worry that you can resolv -- so do something about it The worry that you can't resolve -- so forget about it.
A cynic is not merely one who reads bitter lessons from the past; they are those who are prematurely disappointed in the future.
A cynic is not merely one who reads bitter lessons from the past; the are ones who are prematurely disappointed in the future.
It is surprising how many people go through life without eve recognising that their feelings toward other people are largely determine by their feelings toward themselves, and if you're not comfortable withi yourself, you can not be comfortable with others.
Many people know how to work hard; many others know how to play well but the rarest talent in the world is the ability to introduce elements o playfulness into work, and to put some constructive labour into ou leisure.
men may be divided almost any way we please, but I have found the most useful distinction to be made between those who devote their lives to conjugating the verb to be and those who spend their lives conjugating the verb to have.
Ninety per cent of the world's woe comes from people not knowin themselves, their abilities, their frailties, and even their real virtues Most of us go almost all the way through life as complete strangers t ourselves - so how can we know anyone else?
Perseverance is the most overrated of traits, if it is unaccompanied by talent; beating your head against a wall is more likely to produce a concussion in the head than a hole in the wall.
Regret for the things we di can be tempered by time; it is regret for the things we did not do that is inconsolable.
The pessimist sees only the tunnel; the optimist sees the light at th end of the tunnel; the realist sees the tunnel and the light and the nex tunnel.
Those of you who are happiest are those who are able to enjoy lif in tunnels, even when there is little or no light
The real danger is not that machines will begin to think like men, bu that men will begin to think like machines.
The time to relax is when you don't have time for it.
Our awesome responsibility to ourselves, to our children, and to the future is to create ourselves in the image of goodness, because the future depends on the nobility of our imaginings.
It is never safe to look into the future with the eyes of fear.
The principles we live by, in business and in social life, are the mos important part of happiness. We need to be careful, upon achievin happiness, not to lose the virtues which have produced it.
Poetry contains almost all you need to know about life.
If, of all words of tongue and pen The saddest are, 'It might have been' More sad are these we daily see 'It is, but hadn't ought to be!' 
The most powerful way to change the world is to secretly commit little acts of compassion. You must achieve as if your every act, even the smallest, impacted a thousand people for a hundred generations. Because it does.
Do you commit the error, common among the young of assuming that if you cannot save the whole of mankind you have failed.
For the unlearned, old age is winter; for the learned, it is the season of the harvest.
The person who is too old to learn was probably always too old to learn.
Don't be afraid that your life will end; be afraid that it will neve begin.
Strategic planning for the future is the most hopeful indication of our increasing social intelligence.
Strategy is better than strength
Education is the ability to perceive the hidden connections betwee phenomena.
& wisdom is to know what can be usefully done with that knowledge.
Hope is a state of mind, not of the world; it is a dimension of th soul, and it's not essentially dependent on some particular observation o the world or estimate of the situation. It is the ability to work fo something because it is good, not just because it stands a chance t succeed.
Hope is not a feeling of certainty, that everything ends well. Hope i just a feeling that life and work have meaning, regardless of how they tur out.
The salvation of this human world lies nowhere else than in the huma heart, in the human power to reflect, in human meekness and in huma responsibility. Without a global resolution in human consciousness nothin will change for the better in the sphere of our being as humans, and th catastrophe toward which this world is headed - be it ecological, social demographic, or general breakdown of civilization - will be inevitable.
Truth is not merely what we are thinking, but also why, to whom an under what circumstances we say it.
We live in a post modern world where nearly everything is possible an nothing is certain.
All wisdom is not taught in your school.
Determine to be something in the world, and you will be something. ' cannot', never accomplished anything; 'I will try', has wrought wonders.
Failure can be divided into those who thought and never did, and those who did and never thought
In effect, we have redefined the task of science to be the discovery of laws that will enable us to predict events up to the limits set by the uncertainty principle.
The behaviour of the universe on a very large scale seems to be simple and not chaotic.
Happiness is as a butterfly, which when pursued is always just beyond our grasp, but which, if you will sit down quietly, may alight upon you.
Happiness is feeling good about yourself.
Outside the sphere of individual responsibility there is neithe goodness or badness .... Only where we ourselves are responsible for ou own interests and are free to sacrifice them has our decision moral value.
 Every human being on this earth is born with a tragedy, and it isn' original sin. They are born with the tragedy that they have to grow up .. a lot of people don't have the courage to do it.
Effective managers live in the present  but concentrate on the future.
Man is an intellectual animal, and therefore an everlastin contradiction to himself. His senses centre in himself, his ideas reach t the ends of the universe; so that he is torn in pieces between the two without a possibility of it ever being otherwise.
The art of life is to know how to enjoy a little and to endure much.
The Human Race is the only animal that laughs and weeps; for they ar the only animal that is struck by the difference between what things are and what they might have been.
The love of liberty is the love of others; the love of power is the lov of ourselves.
The seat of knowledge is in the head; of wisdom, in the heart. We are sure to judge wrong, if we do not feel right.
We are very much what others think of us. The reception our observation meet with give us courage to proceed, or dampen our efforts.
All of us must rid ourselves of the illusion that we can buy our way ou of the problems of today by mortgaging the future.
Those who do not teach their children a trade teach them to be robbers.
It is better to know nothing than to learn nothing.
One hour of learning and good works in this world is better than all the joys of the hereafter.
The wise know the value of riches, but the rich do not know the pleasure of wisdom.
When the shepherd is angry with his sheep he sends them a blind guide.
If you load responsibility on a person unworthy of it they will alway betray themselves.
Education is the art of making me ethical.
Nothing great in the world has ever been accomplished without passion.
What experience and history teach is this -- that people and government have never learned anything from history, or acted upon any lessons the might have drawn from it.
Keep in mind that Tao means how: how things happen. Learn to become mor conscious of what is actually happening.
As individuals we move into the future on the mingled accident an design of our lives.
Here lies extinguished in his prime A victim of modernity But yesterday he hadn't time - And now he has eternity.
When you feel sometimes how slowly you climb. Its well to remember that Things Take Time.
Thought precedes action as lightening does thunder.
 A generation which ignores history has no past -- and no future.
Cynicism is an unpleasant way of saying the truth.
If you understand your own age, read the works of fiction produced i it. People in disguise speak freely.
Wise sayings often fall on barren ground; but a kind word is neve thrown away.
An important personal quality for a teacher is that they care abou humanity, If they don't, they are taking their pay illegally.
Never mistake motion for action.
There are some things which canno be learned quickly, and time, which is all we have must be paid heavily for their acquiring They are the very simplest things and because it takes a person's life to know them the little new that each person gets from lif is very costly and the only heritage they have to leave.
We can't ever go back to old things or try and get the 'old kick' out o something or find things the way we remembered them. We have them as w remember them and they are fine and wonderful and we have to go on and hav other things because the old things are nowhere except in our minds now.
To me, this is the essence of knowledge sharing. Its all about contribution, its all about the respect for others opinions and views; its all about a good facilitation and synthesis process; its all about the distribution of lessons learned from this knowledge process, and its all about access to packaged knowledge and key insights that become the starting points for individual learning.
 Love is that condition in which the happiness of another person is essential to your own.
The busy world sometimes forgets that we need sympathy in our happines as well as in our sorrow.
The true meaning of life is to plant trees, under whose shade you do no expect to sit.
Knowledge speaks, but wisdom listens.
Ethics must begin at the top of an organization. It is a leadership issue and the chief executive must set the example.
The future arrives of its own accord, progress does not.
The riches we impart are the only wealth we shall always retain.
I know not what course others may take; but as for me, give me liberty or give me death.
What is research, but a blind date with knowledge?
One doth but breakfast here, another dines, those that liveth longes doth but sup; we must all go to bed in another world.
People, even more than things, have to be restored, renewed, revived, reclaimed and redeemed; never throw out anyone.
Love has nothing to do with what you are expecting to get - only wit what you are expecting to give.
Most politicians will not stick their necks out unless they sens grassroots support ... neither you nor I should expect someone else to tak our responsibility.
Abundance of knowledge does not teach a person to be wise  People who love wisdom should acquaint themselves with a great many particulars.
All things are in a state of flux.
Men who love wisdom should acquaint themselves with a great many particulars.
Much learning does not teach understanding.
Out of life, comes death and out of death, life Out of the young, the old and out of the old, the young Out of waking, sleep and out of sleep, waking The stream of creation and dissolution never stops.
There is nothing permanent except change.
Everything flows an nothing stays.
You cannot step twice into the same river, for other waters ar continually flowing on.
People must not do things for fun. We are not hear for fun. There is n reference to fun in any Act of Parliament.
 For want of a nail the shoe is lost, for want of a shoe the horse i lost, for want of a horse the rider is lost.
The love of learning and the love of money rarely meet.
This is the worst pain a person can suffer: to have insight into muc and power over nothing.
Where wisdom is called for, force is of little use.
The brighter you are, the more your have to learn.
Unhappiness is in not knowing what we want and killing ourselves to ge it.
To the natural philosopher, there is no natural object unimportant o trifling. From the least of Nature's works they may learn the greates lessons.
It is easier to exemplify values than teach them.
Knowledge can be communicated but not wisdom. One can find it, live it, be fortified by it, do wonders through it, but one cannot communicate and teach it.
There is no reality except the one contained within us. That is why s many people live such an unreal life. They take the images outside them fo reality and never allow the world within to assert itself.
Leadership is basically a matter of how to be, not how to do it. Leaders need to lead by example, with clear, consistent messages, with values that are moral compasses and a sesnse of ethics that works full time.
Foundation Stone In building a firm foundation for Success, here are a few stones t remember 1. The wisdom of preparation 2. The value of confidence 3. The worth of honesty 4. The privilege of working 5. The discipline of struggle 6. The magnetism of character 7. The radiance of health 8. The forcefulness of simplicity 9. The winsomeness of courtesy 10. The attractiveness of modesty 11. The inspiration of cleanliness 12. The satisfaction of serving 13. The power of suggestion 14. The buoyancy of enthusiasm 15. The advantage of initiativ 16. The virtue of patience 17. The rewards of co-operation 18. The fruitfulness of perseverance 19. The sportsmanship of losing 20. The joy of winning.
Justice should not only be done, but should manifestly and undoubtly b seen to be done.
All business proceeds on beliefs, or judgements of possibilities, and not on certainties.
We ought always to deal justly not only with those who are just to us but likewise to those who endeavour to injure us; and this, for fear les by rendering them evil for evil, we should fall into the same vice.
 Wisdom is whats left after weve run out of personal opinions.
Strong lives are motivated by dynamic purposes; lesser ones exist on wishes and inclinations.
Its not the mountain we conquer, but ourselves.
If I am not for myself who is for me; and being for my own self what am I? If not now when?
One must marry ones feelings to ones beliefs and ideas. That is probably the only way to achieve a measure of harmony in ones life.
To generate thought is to create life, liveliness, community. What' important is how the generative power of our thought makes our life vivi and burns out the dead brush, dead habits, dead institutions.
Talking to children and being 'helped' by them is perhaps the mos important work that we, the adults, may do in our lives, for all that w make or do in our working weekdays may well be scrap metal or scrap pape in ten years, but our sons and daughters are the future of the world.
Help thy brother's boat across, and lo! thine own has reached th shore.
They who give have all things; they who withhold have nothing.
Like the bee gathering honey from different flowers, the wise perso accepts the essence of different scriptures and sees only the good in al religions.
One should not behave toward others in a way which is disagreeable t oneself. This is the essence of morality. All other activities are due t selfish desire.
If we want more brotherhood and goodwill, more intelligence, more clea thinking, more honesty and sincerity, more tolerance and huma understanding we must concentrate upon cultivating these qualities withi ourselves. There is a natural progression in social advancement from th individual spirit to the family, to the community, to the nation and to th world at large. The line of progress can move in no other direction. Ther is no substitute for personal integrity.
True greatness, first of all, is a thing of the heart. It is alive wit robust and generous sympathies. It is neither behind its age nor too fa before it. It is up with its age, and ahead of it just so far as to be abl to lead its march. It cannot slumber, for activity is a necessity of it existence. It is no reservoir, but a fountain.
For the foresight of things to come, which is providence, belongs onl to those by whose will they are to come. For those only, an supernaturally, proceeds prophecy. The best prophet naturally is the bes guesser, they that are most versed and studied in the matters they gues at; for they hath the most signs to guess by.
Prudence is a presumption of the future, contracted from the experience of time past.
 Words are wise men's counters; they do but reckon by them, but they ar the money of fools.
It is easier to find a score of people wise enough to discover the truth than to find one intrepid enough, in the face of opposition, to stand up for it.
 A compilation of what outstanding people said or wrote at the age of 2 would make a collection of asinine pronouncements.
If a society is to preserve stability and a degree of continuity, i must know how to keep its adolescents from imposing their tastes attitudes, values and fantasies on everyday life.
In times of drastic change, it is the learners who inherit the future, whil the learned usually find themselves beautifully equipped to live in a world that n longer exists.
It is the malady of our age that the young are so busy teaching us tha they have no time left to learn.
People who bite the hand that feeds them usually lick the book who kick them.
The search for happiness is one of the chief sources of unhappiness.
A man and a woman travelled the world in search of happiness. The finally discovered that true happiness has no destination; rather, it is  way of travelling.
Be honest -- have you ever seen a cynical baby? Have you ever stared into a cot, held a baby's hand and whispered lovingly ' You're so sweet and cynical'? No? There are no cynical babies! You are not born cynical. You do not just become cynical. You choos cynicism. You use cynicism to protect and defend against getting hurt eve again. You will get hurt, however, because you can't be cynical and happy.
Blessed are they who can smile at themselves, for they will never ceas to be amused.
Happiness happens when you let it.
Happiness is attractive. Once you decide to be happy you attract grea things into your life. Your decision to be happy helps you to radiate an glow. You light up the world when you are happy.
Happiness is innate. It is natural. It is your core. By contrast unhappiness is learned. It is acquired. it is an outer skin you can gro out of.
Happiness is not in things; happiness is in you.
Happiness is not something you have in your hands or your pockets happiness is something you carry in your heart.
It is never too late to enjoy the moment.
It is always too late to enjoy the moment, if you haven't enjoye it.
Life is all about being first If you want love, be loving first if you want trust, be trusting first if you want forgiveness, be forgiving first if you want honesty, be honest first if you want courage, be courageous first if you want inspiration, be a Light first!
Memo to all managers: catch people enjoying their work A happy team will be more inspired, dedicated, lively, energetic, creative friendly and stress-proofed than any miserable bunch, no matter ho talented.
Nothing in the world can make you happy; everything in the world can encourage you to be happy Nothing in the world can make you sad; everything in the world can encourage you to be sad.
Sometimes in order to be happy in the present moment you have to b willing to give up all hope of a better past.
The gift of happiness is wrapped in your heart, not in the worl outside. Your happiness will never be mailed to you, and it can never ge lost in the post! In truth, your happiness has already been delivered, an it is sitting in your inner mail box - your heart -- waiting to be opened.
The no.1 Happiness Principl Unless you are happy with yourself, you will not be happy with wha you do Unless you are happy with yourself, you will not be happy with wha you have Unless you are happy with yourself, you will not be happy with wha you are Unless you are happy with yourself, you will not be happy with wha you are with.
The only difference between 'happiness is no where' and 'happiness i now here' is not the event, but how you see the event. Perception is th key.
The pursuit of happiness must always fail because it is based on a li -- happiness is not outside you. Until you change your belief tha happiness is somewhere else, you will never quite make it!
Today is a good day for forgiveness Mind you forgiveness is not for everyone It is only for those who would like to experience peace, love, joy, bliss healing, freedom, total salvation and things like that.
You who chase happiness so incessantly give up the chase. Stop awhile and let happiness chase after you.
You will never become happy - you can only be happy.
Responsibility walks hand in hand with capacity and power.
One thing everybody in the world wants and needs is friendliness.
What the future holds for us, depends on what we hold for the future Hard working today's make high-winning tomorrow's.
The future always holds something for the people who keep their faith i it.
There is a price tag on human liberty. That price is the willingness t accept the responsibilities of being free individuals. Payment of thi price is a personal matter for each of us. It is not something we can ge others to pay for us. To let others carry the responsibilities of freedo and the work and worry that accompany them -- while we share only in th benefits -- may be a very human impulse, but it is likely to be fatal.
A happy life is made up of little things in which smiles and smal favours are given habitually. A gift sent, a letter written, a call made,  recommendation given, transportation provided, a cake made, a book lent,  check sent -- things which are done without hesitation. Kindness isn' sacrifice so much as it is being considerate for the feelings of others sharing happiness, the unselfish thought, the spontaneous and friendly act forgetfulness of our own present interest.
Without change there is no improvement, there is no hope, there is n future. Plan for change.
A childs hand in yours  what tenderness and power it arouses. You are instantly the very touchstone of wisdom and strength.
A child's education should begin at least 100 years before they ar born.
All life is an experiment
Historic continuity with the past is not a duty, it is only  necessity.
I find the great thing in this world is not so much where we stand, a in what direction we are moving: To reach the port of heaven, we must sai sometimes with the wind and sometimes against it -- but we must sail, an not drift, nor lie at anchor.
It is the province of knowledge to speak, and it is the privilege o wisdom to listen.
Life is a great bundle of little things.
Man is born to act. To act is to affirm the worth of an end, and to affirm the worth of an end, is to create an ideal.
Science is a first-rate piece of furniture for a person's upper chamber, if they have common sense on the ground floor.
The great thing in this world is not so much where we stand as in what direction we are moving.
The world has to learn that the actual pleasure derived from material things is of rather low quality on the whole and less even in quantity than it looks to those who have not tried it.
The young person knows the rules, but the old person knows the exceptions.
What lies behind us and what lies befre us are tiny matters compared to what lies within us.
Wisdom has taught us to be calm and meek To take one blow, and turn the other cheek It is not written what a man shall d If the rude caitiff smite the other too!
You commit a sin of omission if you do not utilise all the power that i within you. All people have claims on man, and to the person with specia talents, this is a very special claim. It is required that a person tak part in the actions and clashes of their time than the peril of bein judged not to have lived at all.
The true test of character is not how much we know how to do, but how we behave when we dont know what to do.
People do not just get together, they get together to do something.
Men in their generations are like the leaves of the trees. The win blows and one year's leaves are scattered on the ground; but the tree burst into bud and put on fresh ones when the spring comes round.
To really enjoy the better things in life, one must first have experienced the things they are better than.
I dont know about management techniques as such. I only know about engineering and people. The most important thing is the respect for people within the corporation, and so its incumbent on the managers to create an environment within a corporation in which all employees are encouraged to take initiatives in carrying out the work, and doing the work with pleasure.
I have come to terms with the future. From this day onward I will walk easy on the earth. Plant trees. Kill no living things. Live in harmony with all creatures. I will restore the earth where I am. Use no more of its resources than I need. And listen, listen to what it is telling me.
The great need today in every phase of our social, economical and political life is understanding. It has always been so, but today the need is even greater.
Change is not made without inconvenience, even from worse to better.
I slept, and dreamed that life was beauty; I woke, and found that life was duty.
All progress and growth is a matter of change, but change must be growt within our social and government concepts if it should not destroy them.
Wisdom consists not so much in knowing what to do in the ultimate as knowing what to do next.
In the deep, unwritten wisdom of life there are many things to be learned that cannot be taught. We never know them by hearing them spoken, but we grow into them by experience and recognize them through understanding. Understanding is a great experience in itself, but it doe not come through instruction.
If you dont have charity in your heart, you have the worst form of heart trouble.
A nations greatness resides not in her material resources, but in her will, faith, intelligence, and moral forces.
Adversity has the effect of eliciting talents which in prosperous circumstances would have lain dormant.
Adversity reveals genius, prosperity conceals it.
Ask not what tomorrow may bring, but count as blessing every day that fate allows you.
Cease to inquire what the future has in store, and take as a gift whatever the day brings forth.
Force without wisdom falls of its own weight.
Happy the person and happy them alone. Those who are secure within can say tomorrow doesn't matter, for I have lived today.
Science  is organized knowledge. Wisdom is organized life
The changing year's successive pla Proclaims mortality to man.
To marvel at nothing is just about the one and only thing, Nothing tha can make a person happy and keep them that way.
While we're talking, envious time is fleeing: seize the day, put n trust in the future.
What is important is to keep learning, to enjoy challenge, and t tolerate ambiguity. In the end there are no certain answers.
Our definition of success is unorthodox. We claim that any person who i honest, fair, tolerant, kindly, charitable of others and well behaved is  success, no matter what their station in life.
I believe that children are our future. Teach them well and let them lead the way. Show them all the beauty they possess inside.
Youth is a frightening age ... so many problems; so little wisdom t solve them.
Every successful person I have heard of has done the best they coul with conditions as they found them, and not waited until the next year fo better.
No person would listen to you talk if they didn't know it was their tur next.
The greatest thing in the world is for a person to be able to d something well, and say nothing about it.
The secret of the person who is universally interesting is that they ar universally interested.
He is happiest who hath power to gather wisdom from a flower.
Down in their hearts, wise people know this truth: the only way to help yourself is to help others.
Everyone is a damn fool for at least five minutes everyday; wisdom consists in not exceeding the limit.
Folks who never do any more than they get paid for, never get paid fo any more than they do.
It is a fine thing to have ability, but the ability to discover abilit in others is the true test.
Life is just one damned thing after another.
Little minds are interested in the extraordinary; great minds in th commonplace.
One machine can do the work of fifty ordinary people but no machine ca do the work of one extraordinary person.
People are not punished for their sins, but by them.
Pessimism is only the name that people of weak nerves give to wisdom
Power flows to the people who know how. Responsibilities gravitate t the people who can shoulder them.
Progress comes from the intelligent use of experience.
Responsibility is the price of freedom
The greatest mistake you can make in lif is to be continually fearing you will make one.
The happiness of this life depends less on what befalls you than the wa in which you take it.
To escape criticism -- do nothing, say nothing, be nothing.
The mintage of wisdom is to know that rest is rust, and that real life is love, laughter, and work.
To know when to be generous and when to be firm  this is wisdom.
We work to become, not to acquire.
 Honesty pays, but doesn't seem to pay enough to suit some people.
The person who studiously avoids work usually works far harder than th person who pleasantly confronts it and does it. People who cannot work ar not happy people.
To-morrow cheats us all. Why dost thou stay And leave undone what should be done to-day Begin -- the present minute's in thy power But still t'adjourn, and wait a fitter hour Is like the clown, who at some river's sid Expecting stands, in hopes the running tid Will all ere long be past. Fool! not to kno It still has flow'd the same, and will forever flow.
A person has to live with themselves and they should see to it that the always have good company.
I believe in work, hard work and long hours of work. people do not brea down from overwork, but from worry and dissipation.
As the purse is emptied so the heart is filled.
Have courage for the greatest sorrow of life, and patience for the small one; and when you have laboriously accomplished your daily task, go to sleep in peace. God is awake>
If you would civilise a man, begin with his grandmother.
Lifes greatest happiness is to be convinced we are loved.
No army can withstand the strength of an idea whose time has come.
Nothing is so powerful as an idea whose time has come.
People do not lack strength; they lack will.
Short as life is, we make it still shorter by the careless waste o time.
There is nothing like dream to create the future. Utopia to-day, flesh and blood tomorrow.
The supreme happiness of life is the conviction of being loved fo yourself, or more correctly, being loved in spite of yourself.
Wisdom is a sacred communion.
Children need love, especially when they do not deserve it.
Knowledge without action is not knowledge.
A wise person proportions their beliefs to the evidence.
True wisdom is to know what is best worth knowing, and to do what i best worth doing.
If I believe in something, I will fight for it with all I have. But I d not demand all or nothing. I would rather get something than nothing Professional liberals want the fiery debate. They glory in defeat. Th hardest job for a politician today is to have the courage to be a moderate It's easy to take an extreme position.
The impersonal hand of government can never replace the helping hand of a neighbour.
There are not enough jails, not enough policemen, not enough law courts to enforce a law not supported by the people.
Those who dare to be fools, are taking the first step in the direction of wisdom.
The believer is happy; the doubter is wise.
Where ambition ends happiness begins.
It takes a clever person to turn cynic and a wise person to be clever enough not to.
We have no right to dictate through irresponsible action now, or narro mindedness, the future of our children.
One reason that history repeats itself is that so many people were not listening the first time.
Success consists of a series of little daily victories.
Wisdom denotes the pursuing of the best ends by the best possible means.
Children are remarkable for their intelligence and ardour, for thei curiosity, their intolerance of shame, the clarity and ruthlessness o their vision.
Everyone who knows how to read has it in their power to magnif themselves, to multiply the ways in which they exist, to make their lif full, significant, and interesting.
Experience is not what happens to people. It is what a person does with what happens to them.
So long as men worship the Ceasars and Napoleans, Ceasars and Napolean will duly arise and make them miserable.
That we do not learn very much from the lessons of history is th most important of all the lessons that history has to teach.
The great end of life is not knowledge but action.
There's only one corner of the universe you can be certain of improvin and that's your own self. Your own self,' he repeated. So you have to begi there, not outside, not on other people. That comes afterwards, when you'v worked on your own corner.
 Those who believe that they are exclusively in the right are generall those who achieve something.
We are beginning to realize that even the most fortunate of people ar living far below capacity, and that most human beings develop not more tha a small fraction of their potential mental and spiritual efficiency. Th human race, in fact, is surrounded by a large area of unrealise possibilities.
It is not who is right, but what is right, that is of importance.
Learn what is true in order to do what is right is the summing up of the whole duty of man
Perhaps the most valuable result of all education is the ability to make yourself do the thing you have to do, when it ought to be done, whether you like it or not; it is the first lesson that ought to be learned, and however early a person's training begins, it is probably the last lesso that they learn thoroughly.
Sit down before fact as a little child, be prepared to give up every preconceived notion, follow humbly wherever and to whatever abyss nature leads, or you shall learn nothing.
The consequences of our actions are the scarecrows of fools and the beacons of wise men.
The great end of life is not knowledge, but action.
The only medicine for suffering, crime, and all the other woes of mankind, is Wisdom.
We live in a world which is full of misery and ignorance, and the plain duty of each and all of us is to try to make the little corner they can influence somewhat less miserable and somewhat less ignorant than it was before they entered it.
It does not make much difference what a person studies  all knowledge is related, and the person who studies anything, if they keep at it, will become learned.
I have always found that if I move with seventy-five percent or more of the facts that I usually never regret it Its the guys who wait to have everything perfect that drive you crazy.
The thing is, you see, that the strongest man in the world is the man who stands most alone.
Seeking knowledg             The cautious gues             Who comes to the tabl             Speaks sparingl             Listens with ear             Learns with eye             Such is the seeker on knowledge.
All true wisdom is to be found far from the dwellings of men in the great solitudes and it can only be attained through suffering Suffering and privation are the only things that can open the mind to that which is hidden from its fellows.
I too think that time and space are concepts created by the human mind and that if we attempt to find out what their true natures are, we are compelled to return to the nature of the greater life force.
A just society would be one in which liberty for one person is constrained only by the demands created by equal liberty for another.
In a consumer society there are inevitably two kinds of slaves: the prisoners of addiction and the prisoners of envy.
Learned and leisurely hospitality is the only antidote to the stance of deadly cleverness that is acquired in the professional pursuit of objectively secured knowledge. I remain certain that the quest for truth cannot thrive outside the nourishment of mutual trust flowering into a commitment to friendship.
There is a strong tendency for us to over-commit the future, so that when the future becomes present, we seem to be conscious all the time of having an acute scarcity, simply because we have committed ourselves to about 30 hours a day instead of 24.
We do not inherit the earth from our ancestors; we borrow it from our children.
Kamini (lust), Kanchana (gold), and Kirti (fame), are the three obstacles of self-realization.
Life is what happens to you when you're busy making other plans.
The greatest virtue is not to do evil, even to our enemies. If we respect ourselves, we will not commit evil, even in the smallest way.
We are not human beings having a spiritual experience. We are spiritual beings having a spiritual experience.
When you were born, you cried and the world rejoiced. Live your life in such a manner that when you die the world cries and you rejoice.
A person may build themselves a throne of bayonets, but they cannot sit on it.
It is astonishing with how little wisdom mankind can be governed, when that little wisdom is its own.
The aim of education is the knowledge not of facts but of values.
The effect of boredom on a large scale in history is underestimated. I is a main cause of revolution, and would soon bring to an end all th static Utopias and the farmyard civilization of the Fabians.
The enemies of Freedom do not argue; they shout and they shout.
The happiest people seem to be those who have no particular reason fo being so except that they are so.
The happy people are those who are producing something; the bored peopl are those who are consuming much and producing little.
The proper time to influence the character of a child is about 100 year before it is born.
There is no law of progress. Our future is in our own hands, to make or to mar. It will be an uphill fight to the end, and would we have it otherwise? Let no one suppose that evolution will ever exempt us from struggles. You forget, said the Devil, with a chuckle, that I have been evolving too.
The right use of leisure is no doubt a harder problem than the right us of our working hours. The soul is dyed the color of its leisure thoughts As a person thinketh in their heart, so they are.
Few rich people own their own property. The property owns them.
It is a thousand times better to have common sense without education than to have education without common sense.
Better to have wisdom without knowledge, than knowledge without wisdom?
My creed is that Happiness is the only good The place to be happy is here The time to be happy is now The way to be happy is to make other so.
The true civilization is where everyone gives to every other every right they claims for themselves.
As we grow in strength in our spiritual life, we give up the habit of worrying. It serves no purpose other than to make us feel tense and miserable. When I stop fretting about things that are beyond my control and focus instead on generating optimistic and kind thoughts, my life can begin to flow in ever more positive directions. Such a light and easy approach to life enables me to take everything in my stride.
Everything depends on our thinking. If I think in the right way I will be light. If I think in a wasteful way I'll be heavy. Waste thoughts are dangerous. They waste my time. They allow the past to come alive, then I forget the present and question the future.
If I cannot appreciate what I have at the moment, how can I value what the future has in store?
If I fill this moment with happiness and peace, it will increase the chances of the next moment being like that also.
If you spend all your time thinking about what happened to you yesterday, then your experience and enjoyment of today will be that much less.
Look For Goodness: In everything, goodness is there. Our goal is to find it. In every person, the best is there, our job is to recognise it. In every situation, the positive is there, our opportunity is to see it. In every problem, the solution is there, our responsibility is to provide it. In every setback, the success is there, our adventure is to discover it. In every crisis, the reason is there, our challenge is to understand it. By seeing the goodness, we'll be very enthusiastic and our lives will be all the richer.
Love is based on understanding, mutual trust and respect.  Love dwells in the soul.  Allow this love to flow out and around.  Without love, all of life's treasures are loacked away from our vision and experiences.
More valuable than the things we give to each other are the gifts of virtues we pass on quietly to others through our selfless and noble actions. These gifts are truly precious because they are imperishable and they multiply the more we share them.
Nobility: Anger finishes all wisdom. Ego finishes regard. Worry eats away your life. Bribery finishes all justice. Greed finishes all honesty. Fear eats away a human being. The greatest jewellery in the world is your own nobility. Your own best companion in the world is your determined thought. Those who do wish for anything receive everything. Renounce that happiness in which there is sorrow for others.
Our foremost duty is to have compassion and forgiveness and to uplift others!
Self-respect is not a matter of what you are doing in your life, but rather of how you are doing it. It requires that you bring quality and virtue into each action, whatever that action may be.
The lotus is a symbol of purity. With roots in the mud, the flower remains above the dirty water. Live a lotus life. Be in the world, but unaffected by any negativity.
The most successful people in life are not go getters, but go givers!
To do the right thing: Think and then Act, rather than the other way around.  Wisdom is to know when to act and when not to.
Where wisdom is called for, force is of little use.
What I am experiencing at this moment is the result of choices and decisions made in the past; what I will experience in the future depends on choice and decisions I make now.
Winners make big things happen a little bit at a time.
To be truly creative, you have to be curious. When were truly curious, we step away from perceiving things as we always have and allow ourselves to spot the newness that exists.
And I thought over agai My small adventure As with a shore wind I drifted ou In my kaya And thought I was in danger My tear Those small one That I thought so bi For all the vital thing I had to get and to reac And yet, there is onl One great thing The only thin To live to see in huts and on journey The great day that dawns And the light that fills the world.
Youll never plough a field by turning it over in your mind.
Continual cheerfulness is a sign of wisdom.
In our every deliberation, we must consider the impact of our decisions on the next seven generations.
Society is like a lawn where every roughness is smoothed, every brambl eradicated, and where the eye is delighted by the smiling verdure of  velvet surface. He, however, who would study nature in its wilderness an variety, must plunge into the forest, must explore the glen, must stem th torrent, and dare the precipice.
 A persons' true wealth is the good they do in this world.
Happy is the person who finds fault with themselves instead of findin fault with others.
Riches are not from abundance of worldly goods, but from a contente mind.
The best people are those who are useful to others.
Of all possessions, wisdom alone is immortal.
Those who praise anything I do and anything I say, they are not my goo friends. Those who with honest opinion tell me my faults and my mistakes they are my good friends.
Between saying and doing many pairs of shoes are worn out.
From listening comes wisdom, and from speaking repentance.
The person who lives only by hope will die with despair.
By comprehendin all the world in all the world just as it is in all the worl there is release in all the worl nothing is held.
Happy people know what brings them happiness and consistently make those things a priority.
Living now as if todays might be my last sunset, I found myself being more present.
Often we discover wisdom when we are old      When most of our life is behind us       When it is too late to act on what we have learned.
Some people end their lives with deep satisfaction and with few regrets. Others die with bitterness or with sad resignation at the life they might have lived.
Wisdom is different and fundamentally more important than knowledge.
Once we have experienced the unity and interconnectedness of all things, love is no longer the commandment, but the natural expression of our own essence. It will no longer appear as an action required of us, but as the way of being of transpersonal existence. Im aware that this might sound a bit pie-in-the-sky for some people. Nevertheless, coexistence worthy of our humanity will remain impossible as long as we fail to experience this reality.
 Society is all wrong. All those vibrations of fear. You have to chang not only the set-up but the whole concept. You have to learn how to live i the moment and enjoy it.
Birth does not lead to greatness; but the cultivation of virtues by  person leads to greatness.
The best passion is compassion.
But be doers of the word, and not only hearers of it, blindin yourselves with false ideas. Because if any person is a hearer of the wor and not a doer, they are like someone looking at their natural face in  glass; for after looking at themselves they go away, and in a short tim they have no memory of what they look like. But those who go on lookin into the true law which makes them free, being not a hearer without memor but a doer putting it into effect, this person will have a blessing o their acts.
A free person is as jealous of their responsibilities as they are of their liberties.
A great many people think they are thinking when they are merely rearranging their prejudices.
Be not afraid of life. Believe that life is worth living and your belief will help create the fact.
Experience is never limited, and it is never complete; it is an immense sensibility, a kind of huge spider-web of the finest silken threads suspended in the chamber of consciousness, and catching every air-borne particle in its tissue.
I am done with great things and big plans, great institutions and bi successes. I am for those tiny, invisible loving human forces that wor from individual to individual, creeping through the crannies of the worl like so many root lets, or like the capillary oozing of water, yet which if given time, will rend the hardest monuments of human pride.
If this life be not a real fight, in which something is eternally gaine for the universe by success, it is no better than a game of privat theatricals from which one may withdraw at will.
It is our attitude at the beginning of a difficult undertaking which, more than anything else, will determine its successful outcome.
Live all you can; it's a mistake not to. It doesn't so much matter wha you do in particular, so long as you have your life. If you haven't ha that, what have you had.
Lives based on having are less free than lives based either on doing o on being.
The art of being wise is the art of knowing what to overlook.
The balloon of experience is in fact of course tied to the earth, an under that necessity we swing, thanks to a rope of remarkable length, i the more or less commodious can of the imagination; but it is by the rop we know where we are, and from the moment that cable is cut we are at larg and unrelated.
The community stagnates without the impulse of the individual. Th impulse dies away without the sympathy of the community.
The deepest principle in human nature is the craving to be appreciated.
The greatest discovery of my generation is that a human being can alte their life by altering their attitude of mind.
The greatest thing then, in all education, is to make the nervous syste our ally, instead of our enemy.
The great use of life is to spend it for something that will outlast it.
The only obligation to which in advance we may hold as novel, withou incurring the accusation of being arbitrary, is that it be interesting.
There is no more miserable human being than one in whom nothing i habitual but indecision.
There is no worse lie than a truth misunderstood by those who hear it.
These then are my last words to you.. Be not afraid of life. Believe that life is worth living and your belief will help create the fact.
The life is worth living, we can say, since it is what we make it.
Until you try, you don't know what you can't do.
Whatever you are it is your own friends who make your world.
Giving means extending one's Love with no conditions, no expectations and no boundaries ....having no desire to get anything from, or to chang another person.
Concentrate on fixing the problem, not on apportioning the blame.
 I know I am wise for I know when enough is enough.
Knowledge without wisdom is a load of books on the back of an ass.
Money grows on the tree of persistence
None of us is as smart as all of us
No person will find the best way to do a thing unless they love to do that thing.
One kind word can warm three winter months.
One kind word can warm three months winter months.
Those who smile rather than rage are always the stronger.
Who travels for love, finds a thousand miles only one mile.
When you study the history of life, and step back to look at this lon history with the perspective of several hundred million years, you see  flow and direction in it -- from the simple to the complex, from lowe forms to higher, and always towards greater intelligence -- and you wonder can this history of events leading to man, with its clear direction, yet b undirected?
How many toil to lay up riches which they never enjoy.
Life exists in the universe only because the carbon atom possesse certain exceptional properties.
Nothing gives one person so much advantage over another as to remain always cool and unruffled under all circumstances.
 Determine never to be idle. No person will have occasion to complain of the want of time who never loses any. It is wonderful how much may be done if we are always doing.
Guiding Principles I. Never put off till tomorrow what you can do today II. Never trouble another for what you can do yourself III. Never spend your money before you have it. IV. Never buy what you do not want, because it is cheap; it will be dear to you V. Pride costs us more than hunger, thirst, and cold VI. We never repent of having eaten too little VII. Nothing is troublesome that we do willingly. VIII. How much pain have cost us the evils which have never happened IX. Take things always by their smooth handle X. When angry, count ten before you speak; if very angry, a hundred.
Honesty is the first chapter in the Book of Wisdom. Let it be our endeavour to merit the character of a just nation.
If a nation expects to be ignorant and free, in a state of civilization, it expects what never was and never has been.
I have never been able to conceive how any rational being could propos happiness for themselves from the exercise of power over others.
I hope our wisdom will grow with our power, and teach us that the less we use our power the greater it will be.
I like the dreams of the future better than the history of the past.
In matters of style, swim with the current; In matters of principle, stand like a rock.
It is neither wealth nor splendor; but tranquility and occupation which give you happiness.
Nothing gives one person so much advantage over another as to remain always cool and unruffled under all circumstances.
Only aim to do your duty, and mankind will give you credit where you fail.
The most valuable of talents is that of never using two words when one will do.
The qualifications of self-government in society are not innate. They are the result of habit and long training, and for these they will require time and probably much suffering.
When a person assumes a public trust, they should consider themselves as public property.
Whenever a person has cast a longing eye on office a rottenness appears in his conduct.
The inlet of a person's mind is what they learn, the outlet is what they accomplish. If their mind is not fed by a continued supply of new ideas which they put to work with purpose, and if there is no outlet in action, their mind becomes stagnant. Such a mind is a danger to the individual who owns it and is useless to the community.
All they that take the sword shall perish with the sword.
A person's life does not consist in the abundance of their possessions.
By their fruits ye shall know them.
A wise person hears one word and understands two.
Those who save a single person, it is as though they saved the whole world.
Great people are not always wise.
The price of wisdom is above rubies
Wisdom is better than rubies
A new commandment I give unto you. That ye love one another; as I have loved you, that ye also love one another.
My little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue, but in deed and in truth.
The social progress, order, security and peace of each country are necessarily connected with the social progress, order, security and peace of all other countries.
To endure all things with a steady and peaceful mind, not only brings with it many blessings to the soul, but also enables us, in the midst of our difficulties, to have a clear judgment about them, and to supply the fitting remedy for them.
The future belongs to the things that can grow whether it be a tree o democracy.
A President's hardest task is not to do what is right, but to know wha is right.
At the desk where I sit, I have learned one great truth. The answer fo all our national problems - the answer for all the problems of the world  comes to a single word. That word is 'education'
The future holds little hope for any government where the present hold no hope for the people.
(The great society) is a place where people are more concerned with the quality of their goals than the quantity of their goods.
There are no problems we cannot solve together, and very few that we ca solve by ourselves.
We can draw lessons from the past but we cannot live in it.
Remember to keep your thoughts positive, for your thoughts become your words; remember to keep your words positive, for your words become your actions; remember to keep your actions positive, for your actions become your habits; and remember to keep your habits positive, because your habits become your destiny.
A decent provision for poor is the true test of civilization
 A person always makes themselves greater as they increase thei knowledge.
A person who both spends and saves money is the happiest, because the have both enjoyments.
 A wise person will make haste to forgive, because they know the tru value of time, and will not suffer it to pass away in unnecessary pain.
Curiosity is in great and generous minds, the first passion and th last.
Curiosity is one of the permanent and certain characteristics of  vigorous intellect.
Deviation from nature is deviation from happiness.
Don't think of retiring from the world until the world will be sorr that you retire.
Every human being whose mind is not debauched will be willing to giv all they have to get knowledge.
Few enterprises of great labour or hazard would be undertaken if we ha not the power of magnifying the advantages we expect to get from them.
Frugality may be termed the daughter of prudence, the sister o temperance, and the parent of liberty. Those that are extravagant wil quickly become poor, and poverty will enforce dependence and invit corruption.
If a person does not make new acquaintances as they advance throug life, they will soon find themselves left alone. A person should keep thei friendship in constant repair.
If it rained knowledge, I'd hold out my hand; but I would not giv myself the trouble to go in quest of it.
I had done all that I could; and no man is well pleased to have his al neglected, be it ever so little.
Integrity without knowledge is weak and useless, and knowledge withou integrity is dangerous and dreadful.
It is our first duty to serve society, and, after we have done that, w may attend wholly to the salvation of our own souls. A youthful passion fo abstracted devotion should not be encouraged.
It is better to live rich than to die rich.
It is better to suffer wrong than to do it, and happier to be sometime cheated than not to trust.
It matters not how a person dies, but how they live. The act of dying is not of importance, it lasts so short a time.
Knowledge is of two kinds. We know a subject ourselves, or we know wher we can find information upon it.
Life affords no higher pleasure than that of surmounting difficulties passing from one step of success to another, forming new wishes, and seein them gratified. Those that labor in any great or laudable undertakings hav their fatigues first supported by hope, and afterwards rewarded by joy. .. To strive with difficulties, and to conquer them is the highest huma felicity.
Life is not long, and too much of it must not pass in idle deliberation on how it shall be spent.
Love is the wisdom of the fool and the folly of the wise.
People more often requires to be reminded than informed.
Nature has given women so much power that the law has very wisely given them little.
None but a fool worries about things they cannot influence.
Nothing will ever be attempted if all possible objections must be first overcome.
Novelty is indeed necessary to preserve eagerness and alacrity; but ar and nature have stores inexhaustible by human intellects, and every momen produces something new to those who have quickened their faculties b diligent observation.
Patriotism is the last refuge of a scoundrel.
Resolve not to be poor, whatever you have, spend less. Poverty is  great enemy to human happiness, it certainly destroys liberty, and it make some virtues impracticable, and others extremely difficult.
The future is purchased by the present.
The law is the last result of human wisdom acting upon human experienc for the benefit of the public.
The love of life is necessary to the vigorous prosecution of an undertaking.
There is nothing too little for so little a creature as man. it is b studying little things that we attain the great knowledge of having a little misery and as much happiness as possible.
There is no wisdom in useless and hopeless sorrow.
Those who praises everybody praises nobody.
To improve the golden moment of opportunity and catch the good that i within our reach, is the great art of life.
To keep your secret is wisdom; to expect other to keep it is folly.
Wealth heaped on wealth nor truth nor safety buys The dangers gather as the treasures rise.
Whatever withdraws us from the power of our senses; whatever makes th past, the distant, or the future predominate over the present, advances u in the dignity of thinking beings.
When making your choice in life, do not neglect to live.
We are inclined to believe those whom we do not know because they hav never deceived us.
Wisdom is knowing what to do next, virtue is doing it.
All television is educational television. The question is: what is i teaching?
Excellence can be achieved, if we Care more than others think is wise Risk more than others think is safe Dream more than others think is practical Expect more than others think is possible.
No person was ever endowed with a right without being at the same time saddled with a responsibility.
Love doesn't make the world go 'round. Love is what makes the rid worthwhile.
Be not afraid of life. Believe that life is worth living, and you belief will help create the fact.
My opinion is that power should always be distrusted, in whatever hand it is placed.
No one has ever found wisdom without also being a fool.
Just remember the world is not a playground but a schoolroom. Life i not a holiday but an education. One eternal lesson for us all: to teach u how better we should love.
Be a life long or short, its completeness depends on what it was live for.
Wisdom is knowing what to do next, virtue is doing it.
A person who trusts everyone is a fool, and a person who trusts no one is a fool.
Map out your future, but do it in pencil.
The way to get things done is not to mind who gets the credit for doin them.
Mistakes are the portals of discovery
For me there is only one path and that is the path of the heart. An there I travel, looking breathlessly.
Loving kindness is greater than laws, and the charities of life are mor than all ceremonies.
Dont waste energy trying to cover up failure. Learn from your failures and go on to the next challenge. Its OK to fail. If youre not failing, youre not growing.
A person becomes a conservative at that moment in their life when the suddenly realize they have something to conserve.
They are simply stated: industry, compassion, humility, patience, honesty and courage. When all your actions are congruent and aligned with those principles, you will feel a deep sense of inner harmony and peace. Living this way will inevitably lead you to spiritual success. This is because you will be doing what is right.
To live life to the fullest, you must stand guard at the gate of your garden and let only the very best information enter. You truly cannot afford the luxury of a negative thought  not even one. The most joyful, dynamic and contented people of this world are no different from you or me in terms of their makeup. We are all flesh and bones. We all come from the same universal source. However, the ones who do more than just exist, the ones who fan the flames of their human potential and truly savor the magical dance of life do different things than those whose lives are ordinary. Foremost among the things that they do is adopt a positive paradigm about their world and all that is in it.
When you are inspired by some great purpose, some extraordinary project, all of your thoughts break their bonds: your mind transcends limitations, your consciousness expands in every direction and you find yourself in a new, great and wonderful world. Dormant forces, faculties and talents become alive and you discover yourself to be a greater person than you ever dreamed yourself to be.
Wisdom without proper tools for its application is no wisdom at all
As far as we can discern, the sole purpose of human existence is t kindle a light in the darkness of mere being.
Everything that irritates us about others can lead us to an understanding of ourselves.
I have observed that a life directed to an aim is in general better, richer and healthier than an aimless one, and that it is better to go forwards with the stream of time than backwards against it.
If there is anything that we wish to change in the child, we should first examine it and see whether it is not something that could better be changed in ourselves.
The afternoon of human life must also have a significance of its own and cannot be merely a pitiful appendage to life's morning.
The least of things with a meaning is worth more in life than the greatest of things without it.
We have become rich in knowledge, but poor in wisdom. The centre of gravity of our interest has switched over to the materialistic side, whereas the ancients preferred a mode of thought nearer to the fantastic type. To the classical mind everything was still saturated with mythology.
We have in our possession perhaps more knowledge, and power resulting from our knowledge, than ever before - but less and less are we morally committed to our knowledge and its power.
We need more understanding of human nature, because the only real danger that exists is man himself ... We know nothing of man, far too little. His psyche should be studied because we are the origin of all coming evil.
Where love rules, there is no will to power, and where power predominates, love is lacking. The one is the shadow of the other.
The future is not in the hands of fate but in ours.
 All wish to possess knowledge, but few, comparatively speaking, are willing to pay the price.
Never does nature say one thing and wisdom another.
O servant, where doest thou seek me Lo! I am beside thee I am neither in the temple nor in the mosque neither am I in rites and ceremonie nor in yoga nor in renunciation If thou are a true seeker, thou shalt at once see me Thou shalt meet me in a moment's time.
The best of all true things is a true heart. Without truth, n happiness, though you try a million tricks.
What this generation was bred to at televisions knees was not wisdom but cynicism.
Anyone who keeps ability to see beauty never grows old.
The meaning of life is that it stops.
As the flower is the forerunner of the fruit, so childhood is the promise of life.
I make progress by having people around who are smarter than I am  and listening to them. And I assume that everyone is smarter about something than I am.
Trouble is only opportunity in working clothes.
We live in the present, we dream of the future, but we learn eterna truths from the past.
Listen to the Exhortation of the Dawn     Look to this Day     For it is Life, the very Life of Life     In its brief course lie all th     Verities and Realities of your Existence     The Bliss of Growth     The Glory of Action     The Splendor of Beauty     For Yesterday is but a Dream     And To-morrow is only a Vision     But To-day well lived make     Every Yesterday a Dream of Happiness     And every Tomorrow a Vision of Hope     Look well therefore to this Day     Such is the Salutation of the Dawn!
A lawyers relationship to justice and wisdom is on par with a piano tuners relationship to a concert. He neither composes the music, nor interprets it  they merely keep the machinery running.
All the ancients used to say that emperors should concern themselve with general principles, but need not deal with the smallest details however, failure to attend to details will end up endangering your greates virtues.
You know the Greeks didnt write obituaries. They only asked one question after a person died: did they have passion.
Happiness is not an ideal of reason but of imagination.
Science is organized knowledge. Wisdom is organized life.
Science is organized information. Wisdom is organized values.
So act as to treat humanity, whether in thine own person or in that o any other, in every case as an end withal, never as means only.
Two things fill the mind ever new and increasing wonder and awe, th more often and the more seriously reflection concentrates upon them: th starry heaven above me and the moral law within me Kant, Immanuel * 
We total up all the pluses and minuses in the position and then go to work on how to improve our side of the ledger.
The father of every good work is discontent, and its mother i diligence.
Necessity is the mother of invention
Wisdom is the reward for a lifetime of listening . When youd have preferred to talk.
Every perfect traveller always creates the country where he travels.
A thing of beauty is a joy for ever Its loveliness increases; it will neve Pass into nothingness; but still will kee A bower quiet for us, and a slee Full of sweet dreams, and health, and quiet breathing.
'Beauty is truth, truth beauty,' -- that is all Ye know on earth, an all Ye need to know.
Don't be discouraged by a failure. It can be a positive experience Failure is, in a sense, the highway to success, inasmuch as every discover of what is false leads us to seek earnestly after what is true, and ever fresh experience points out some form of error which we shall afterward carefully avoid.
'If I should die', said I to myself, 'I have left no immortal wor behind me -- nothing to make my friends proud of my memory -- but I hav loved the principle of beauty in all things, and if I had had time I woul have made myself remembered.'
Let us not therefore go hurrying about and collecting honey, bee-like buzzing here and there impatiently from a knowledge of what is to b arrived at. But let us open out leaves like a flower, and be passive an receptive ...
Give us grace to listen well.
In the world of everything is possible, nothing gets done.
Age does not always bring wisdom. Sometimes age comes alone.
Although the world is full of suffering, it is full also of the overcoming of it.
Happiness cannot come from without. It must come from within. It is not what we see and touch or that which others do for us which makes us happy; it is that which we think and feel and do, first for the other fellow and then for ourselves.
I am only one; but I am still one. I cannot do everything, but still     can do something. I will not refuse to do the something I can do.
I long to accomplish a great and noble task, but it is my chief duty to accomplish humble tasks as though they were great and noble.
It is not possible for civilization to flow backwards while there i youth in the world.
Keep your face to the sunshine and you cannot see the shadow.
Life is either a daring adventure or nothing.
Many people have a wrong idea of what constitute true happiness. It i not attained through self-gratification but through fidelity to a worth purpose.
No pessimist ever discovered the secrets of the stars, or sailed to an uncharted land, or opened a new heaven to the human spirit.
Security is mostly an illusion. It does not exist in nature, nor do the children of men as a whole experience it. Avoiding danger is no safer in the long run than outright exposure. Life is either a daring adventure or nothing.
The best and most beautiful things in the world cannot be seen or even touched. They must be felt with the heart.
When indeed shall we learn that we are all related  one to the other, that we are all members of one body? Until the spirit of love for our fellow men, regardless of race, color or creed, shall fill the world, making real in our lives and our deeds the actuality of human brotherhood  until the great mass of the people shall be filled with the sense of responsibility for each others welfare, social justice can never be attained.
When one door of happiness closes, another opens; but often we look s long at the closed door that we do not see the one which has been opene for us.
Convictions are the mainsprings of action, the driving powers of life What people live are their convictions.
Snowflakes are one of nature's most fragile things, but just look wha they can do when they stick together.
Small kindness, small courtesies, small considerations, habituall practised in our social intercourse, give greater charm to the characte than the display of great talent and accomplishments.
Society cannot be run by authority alone. What we are really facing is  crisis of values. There has to be an inner compass that guides people. And of course, there must also be hope. The responsibility of government is t give to people the hope that life can be better, that education ca proceed, that there will be a job, that there will be a chance to clim that ladder we call the American Dream. The government can help provide th environment of hope, the education, housing and jobs, with the help of th private sector. But, ultimately, the Judeo-Christian teaching of persona responsibility is the crux of the matter.
If you bear the cross gladly, it will bear you.
Intelligence must follow faith, never precede it, and never destroy it.
Man considers the actions, but God weighs the intentions.
The humble knowledge of thyself is a surer way to God than the deepe search after learning.
Awake, my soul, and with the su Thy daily stage of duty run Shake off dull sloth, and joyful ris To pay thy morning sacrifice.
Redeem thy mis-spent time that's past And live this day as if thy last.
Teach me to live, that I may drea The grave as little as my bed.
Let there b Respect for the eart Peace for its peopl Love in our live Delight in the goo Forgiveness for past wrong And from now on a new start.
And so, my fellow Americans, ask not what your country can do for you - ask what you can do for your country. My fellow citizens of the world as not what America will do for you, but what together we can do for th freedom of man.
Change is the law of life. And those who look only to the past or th present are certain to miss the future.
Children are the worlds most valuable resource and its best hope for the future.
If a free society cannot help the many who are poor, it cannot save th few who are rich.
If we cannot now end our differences, at least we can help make th world safe for diversity.
Leadership and learning are indispensable to each other.
Mankind must put an end to war or war will put an end to mankind.
Those who make peaceful revolution impossible will make violen revolution inevitable.
When power leads people towards arrogance, poetry reminds them of thei limitations. When power narrows the areas of people's concern, poetr reminds them of the richness and diversity of their existence. When powe corrupts, poetry cleanses. For art establishes the basic human truths whic must serve as the touchstone of our judgment.
Few will have the greatness to bend history itself, but each of us can work to change a small portion of events, and in the total; of all those acts will be written the history of this generation.
It is an unfinished society that we offer the world a society that i forever committed to change, to improvement and to growth, that will neve stagnate in the certitude of ideology or the finalities of dogma.
 Some men see things as they are and say why? I dream things that neve were and say 'Why not?'
What is objectionable, what is dangerous about extremists is not tha they are extreme, but that they are intolerant. The evil is not what the say about their cause, but what they say about their opponents.
Life isnt a matter of milestones, but moments.
I had nothing to offer anybody except my own confusion.
If you can keep your head when all about you are losing theirs, its possible you havent grasped the situation.
I object to people running down the future. I am going to live the res of my life there, and I'd like it to be a nice place.
My interest is in the future because I am going to spend the rest o my life there.
Logic is a system whereby one may be wrong with confidence.
My interest is in the future because I am going to spend the rest of my life there.
Our imagination is the only limit to what we can hope to have in the future.
Problems are the price of progress: Don't bring me anything but troubl -- good news weakens me.
The future can be anything we want it to be, providing we have the fait and that we realize that peace, no less than war, requires blood and swea and tears.
The world hates change, yet it is the only thing that has brought progress.
We work day after day, not to finish things; but to make the futur better .... because we will spend the rest of our lives there.
In my early childhood, I always wondered why we only learn from the pas ... Couldn't teachers teach something of the future? ... Holisti anticipation of the future through the use of Ethnographic Futures Researc by many informants with varying backgrounds can provide useful framework for policy makers.
The person of tomorrow must have ability to live with themselves. Thi assures inner strength to do what is right in material and huma relationships. Its fruits are peace of mind and serenity of being.
In the long run we are all dead.
There is nothing so disastrous as a rational investment policy in a irrational world.
When facts change, sensible folk change their minds.
Words should be a little wild because they are the assault of thought upon the unthinking.
When you relinquish the desire to control your future, you can have more happiness.
If you want clarity you cannot have faith if you want truth you cannot have clarity.
In order to help another effectively I must understand what he understands If I do not know that, my greater understanding will be of no help to him.
It is perfectly true, as philosophers say, that life must be understoo backwards. But they forget the other proposition, that it must be live forwards.
Life is not a problem to be solved but reality to be experienced.
One should not think slightly of the paradoxical; for the paradox is the source of th thinker's passion, and the thinke without paradox is like  lover without feeling a paltry mediocrity.
That which is truly human one generation learns from the one before it No generation learns from another how to love. No generation has a shorte task assigned to it except insofar as the previous generation shirked it task and deluded itself.
The unhappy person is never present to themselves because they alway live in the past or the future.
Wisdom is the supreme part of happiness.
Things have a terrible permanence when people die.
Hate is too great a burden to bear. It injures the hater more than i injures the hated.
There is a spirit and a need and a person at the beginning of ever human advance. Everyone of these must be right for that particular momen of history, or nothing happens.
All progress is precarious, and the solution of one problem brings u face to face with another problem.
Everyone can be great, because everyone can serve.
Everyone has the power for greatness, not for fame but greatness because greatness is determined by service.
Life's most persistent and urgent question is: What are you doing fo others?
I am not interested in power for powers sake, but Im interested in power that is moral, that is right and that is good.
If people haven't discovered something that they will die for, they ar not fit to live.
 I have a dream ...
Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.
In our struggles, if we are to bring about the kind of changes that wil cause the world to stand up and take notice, we must be committed. There i so much work that needs to be done. It is a big job, but there is no on better to do it than those who live here. We could show the world how i should be done and how to do it with dignity.
Lifes most urgent question is: what are you doing for others?
Nothing in all the world is more dangerous than sincere ignorance and conscientious stupidity.
Our scientific power has outrun our spiritual power. We have guided missiles and misguided men.
Science investigates; religion interprets. Science gives us knowledge, which is power; religion gives us wisdom, which is control.
Science gives us knowledge which is power if we use it. Religion should give us the wisdom to use it responsibly.
The means by which we live have outdistanced the ends for which we live Our scientific power has outrun our spiritual power. We have guide missiles and misguided men.
The ultimate measure of a person is not where they stand in moments o comfort, but at times of challenge and controversy.
Those who are not looking for happiness are the most likely to find it because those who are searching forget that the surest way to be happy i to seek happiness for others.
We are prone to judge success by the size of our salaries o automobiles, rather than by the quality of our service and relationship t mankind.
We have flown in the air like birds and swum the sea like fishes but w have yet to learn the simple act of walking the earth like brothers an sisters.
We must accept finite disappointment, but we must never lose infinit hope.
We must learn to live together as brothers or perish together as fools.
Democracy is threatened by the inertia of good people, by th selfishness of most people, and by the evil designs of a few people.
Questions are the creative acts of intelligence.
Did it ever strike you that goodness is not merely a beautiful thing but by far the most beautiful thing in the whole world? So that nothing i to be compared for value with goodness; that riches, honor, power pleasure, learning, the whole world and all in it, are not worth having i comparison with being good; and the utterly best thing for a person is t be good, even though they were never to be rewarded for it.
We act as though comfort and luxury were the chief requirements of life when all that we need to make us really happy is something to b enthusiastic about.
If you keep your head when all about yo Are losing theirs and blaming it on you If you can trust yourself when all men doubt you, But make allowance for their doubting too If you can wait and not be tired by waiting Or being lied about, don't deal in lies, Or being hated, don't give way to hating And yet don't look too good, not talk too wise If you can dream -- and not make dreams your master If you can think -- and not make thoughts your aim If you can meet with Triumph and Disaster And treat those two impostors just the same If you can bear to hear the truth you've spoke Twisted by knaves to make a trap for fools Or watch the things you gave your life to, broken And stoop and build 'em up with worn-out tools If you can make one heap of all your winning And risk it on one turn of pitch-and-toss And lose, and start again at your beginning And never breathe a word about your loss If you can force your heart and nerve and sine To serve your turn long after they are gone And so hold on when there is nothing in yo Except the Will which says to them: 

If you can talk with crowds and keep your virtue Or walk with Kings -- nor lose the common touch If neither foes nor loving friends can hurt you If all men count with you, but none too much If you can fill the unforgiving minut With sixty seconds' worth of distance run Yours is the Earth and everything that's in it And -- which is more -- you'll be a Man, my son!
mature, my child...
I keep six honest serving me They taught me all I know Their names are WHAT and WHY and WHE And HOW and WHERE and WHO.
Power without responsibility: the prerogative of the harlot throughou the ages.
The highest form of wisdom is to get drunk and to go to pieces.
No school can offset the evil influence not merely of a bad home, but o a home with low moral disciplinary and intellectual standards. If father and mothers offer their children no more intellectual fare than comi books, a television set, and picture magazines; if they make of the hom merely a place to sleep, drink and eat - and not the centre of life - the have no right to complain of the schools.
Our greatest obligation to our children is to prepare them to understan and to deal effectively with the world in which they live and not with th world we have known or the world we would prefer to have.
A gossip is one who talks to you about others; a bore is one who talk to you about themself; and a brilliant conversationalist is one who talk to you about yourself.
Accept everything about yourself  I mean everything. You are you and that is the beginning and the end  no apologies, no regrets.
Even a paranoid can have enemies.
If you dont know where you are going, every road will get you nowhere.
Intelligence is not all that important in the exercise of power and i often, in point of fact, useless. Just as a leader doesn't nee intelligence, a man in my job doesn't need too much of it either.
People think responsibility is hard to bear. Its not. I think that sometimes it is the absence of responsibility that is harder to bear. You have a great feeling of impotence.
The absence of alternatives clears the mind marvellously.
The management of a balance of power is a permanent undertaking, not a exertion that has a foreseeable end.
To be absolutely certain about something, one must know everything or nothing about it.
 Whatever must happen ultimately, should happen immediately.
 While we should never give up our principles, we must also realize that we cannot maintain our principles unless we survive.
The future is created by the actions we take in the present; and every action taken, no matter how small or inconsequential it seems, can change wholly the shape that emerges.
Your future is created by what you do today, not tomorrow.
Be grateful for the joy of life. Be glad for the privilege of work. B thankful for the opportunity to give and serve. Good work is the grea character-builder, the sweetener of life, the maker of destiny. Let th spirit of your work be right, and whether your task be great or small yo will then have the satisfaction of knowing it is worth while.
Do not let rifles disturb your tranquillity of mind ... Life is to precous to be sacrificed for the nonessential and transient ... Ignore th inconsequential.
Learn to depend upon yourself by doing things in accordance with you own way of thinking. Make your judgment trustworthy by trusting it Cultivate regular periods of silence and meditation. The best time to buil judgment is in solitude, when you can think out things for yourself withou the probability of interruption.
Unless the idealist is brave and has the courage to face the truth their idealism creates nothing.
 Good Rules to Follow Learn to get along with people Learn to exhibit more patience than any other person you know Learn to respect other people's ideas and opinions Learn to think problems through to the end Learn to try to put yourself in the other person's place Be democrati Be loya Cultivate cheerfulnes Work.
We cannot consider people truly educated if they think of education onl as the gathering of facts, data and information. The intelligent person i one who has learned how to choose wisely and therefore has a sense o values, a purpose in life and a sense of direction.
Those who can take advice are sometimes superior to those who can giv it.
The greatest thing about man is his ability to transcend himself, his ancestry and his environment and to become what he dreams of being.
Everything you read in newspapers is absolutely true, except for that rare story of which you happen to have first-hand knowledge.
I discovered I always have choices and sometimes its only a choice of attitude.
I believe with all my heart that civilization has produced nothing fine than a person who thinks and practices true tolerance. Some one has sai that most of us don't think, we just occasionally rearrange our prejudices And I suspect that even today, with all the progress we have made i liberal thought, the quality of true tolerance is as rare as the quality o mercy. That people of all creeds have fundamental common objectives is  fact one must learn by the process of education. How to work jointly towar these objectives must be learned by experience.
A big corporation is more or less blamed for being big, but it is onl big because it gives service. If it doesn't give service, it gets smal faster than it grew big.
Great opportunities to help others seldom come, but small ones surround us every day.
Creative activity described as a type of learning process where teacher and pupil are locate in the same individual.
The most persistent sound which reverberates through man's history i the beating of war drums.
The greatest power that a person has is the power to choose.
Wherever something is wrong, something is too big.
Live love, love life.
If you don't know where you are going, any road will take you there.
They deserve paradise who make their companions laugh.
The essence of Buddhism: No self, no problem.
The wisdom of the heart can be found in any circumstance, on any planet, round or square. it arises not through knowledge or images of perfection, or by comparison and judgement, but by seeing with the eyes of wisdom and the heart of loving attention, by touching with compassion all that exists in our world.
The things that matter most in our lives are not fantastic or grand. They are the moments when we touch one another.
To end fragmentation, we don't need to gain some special knowledge, w need less knowing about how life should be and more openness to it mystery.
To see the preciousness of all things, we must bring our full attention to life.
Wise benevolence is rarely a quality of those who achieve and hold positions of absolute power.
Five promises for a better world             I will do one thing every day to make peace grow like a flower                         I will care for and not destroy the environment                         I will help people hurt by land mines and wa             I will solve my arguments peacefully without violence        Every day I will spend five minutes reflecting peacefully.
The more you are willing to accept responsibility for your actions, the more credibility you will have.
To accomplish more, redirect your mental energy by continuously reminding yourself of all the things you do right.
Leaders establish the vision for the future and set the strategy for getting there; they cause change. They motivate and inspire others to go in the right direction and they, along with everyone else, sacrifice to get there.
We know that leadership is very much related to change. As the pace of change accelerates, there is naturally a greater need for effective leadership.
Never before has so much technology and information been available to mankind. Never before has mankind been so utterly confused. Its time for clarity.
Remember the pas Live for the presen Hope for the future.
Wisdom involves exceptional breath and depth of knowledge about the conditions of life and human affairs and reflective judgement about the application of this knowledge.
Happiness is a state of which you are unconscious, of which you are no aware. The moment you are aware that you are happy, you cease to be happ ... You want to be consciously happy; the moment you are consciously happy happiness is gone.
 It is the truth that liberates, not your efforts to be free.
Learning is the very essence of humility, learn from everything and fro everybody. There is no hierarchy in learning.
Listen .. I do not know if you have ever examined how you listen it doesn't matter to what Whether to a bird, to the wind in the leaves, to the rushin waters or how you listen in a dialogue with yourself to your conversation in various relationship with your intimate friends, your wife or husband ... If we try to listen we find it extraordinary difficult because we are always projecting our opinions and ideas our prejudices, our background, our inclinations, our impulses when they dominate we hardly listen at all to what is being sai .. In that state there is no value at all One listens and therefore learns only in a state of attention, a state of silence in which this whole background is in abeyance, is quiet then, it seems to me Real communication can only take place where there i Silence
No dynamic golden pill is ever going to solve our human problems. The can be solved only by bringing about a radical revolution in the mind an the heart of man. This demands hard, constant, work; seeing and listening and thus being sensitive.
Only the intelligence of love and compassion can solve all problems of life.
The moment you have in your heart this extra-ordinary thing called lov and feel the depth, the delight, the ecstasy of it, you will discover tha for you the world is transformed.
Civilizations die from philosophical calm, irony, and the sense of fai play quite as surely as they die of debauchery.
Though many have tried, no one has ever yet explained away the decisiv fact that science, which can do so much, cannot decide what ought to b done.
You are only one thought away from a good feeling.
It is the denial of death that is partially responsible for peopl living empty, purposeless lives; for when you live as if you'll live fo ever, it becomes too easy to postpone the things you know that you mus do.
People are like stained glass windows; they sparkle and shine when the sun is out, but when the darkness sets in their true beauty is revealed only if there is light within.
Should you shield the canyons from the windstorms you would never se the true beauty of their carvings.
Lead me from death to life, from falsehood to truth Lead me from despair to hope, from fear to trust Lead me from hate to love, from war to peace Let peace fill our heart, our world, our universe.
We need to get over the questions that focus on the pas and on the pain -- 'Why did this happen to me?' - and ask instead the question which opens doors to the future 'Now that this has happened, what shall I do about it?' 
When you carry out acts of kindness you get a wonderful feeling inside It is as though something inside your body responds and says, Yes, this i how I ought to feel.
The best way to get on in the world is to make people believe its to their advantage to help you.
Make wisdom your provision for the journey from youth to old age, for it is a more certain support than all other possessions.
A lot of the time I'm in the present, and I'm thinking about the past o scheming about the future and missing every present moment, instead o actually partaking of the sacrament of every present moment.
We live in a moment of history where change is so speeded up that w begin to see the present only when it is already disappearing.
Whether life is worth living depends on whether there is love in life.
Planning is bringing the future into the present so that you can do something about it now.
Life is what happens to us while we are making other plans.
Nothing puzzles me more than time and space; yet nothing troubles m less.
The human species, accordin to the best theory I can form of it, is composed of two distinct races the people who borrow, and the people who lend.
Neither man nor woman can be worth anything until; they have discovere that they are fools.
The greatest thing in the world is a human life; the greatest work i the world is the helpful touch upon that life. The look, the word, th invisible atmosphere of the home and the church, the sights and sounds o all the busy days enter the super sensitive and retentive soul, and ar woven into the life tissue.
If it ain't broke, don't fix it.
Inventing the future requires giving up control. No one with a compelling purpose and a great vision knows how it will be achieved. One has to be willing to follow an unknown path, allowing the road to take you where it will. surprise, serendipity, uncertainty and the unexpected are guaranteed on the way to the future.
If at first you DO succeed try something harder.
If I were asked to give what I consider the single most useful bit o advice for all humanity it would be this: Expect trouble as an inevitabl part of life and when it comes, hold your head high, look it squarely i the eye and say, 'I will be bigger than you. You cannot defeat me.'
In the final analysis it is not what you do for your children but wha you have taught them to do for themselves that will make them successfu human beings.
Opportunities are usually disguised by hard work so most people don' recognize them.
Every situation bears the seed of its own reversal. This is the law o nemesis: Nothing good lasts indefinitely, because others will want to shar it.
In this world the optimists have it, not because they are always right but because they are positive. Even when they are wrong, that are positive and they is the way of achievement, correction, improvement and success.
In the long run, only optimism pays
Circumstances form the character, but like petrifying waters, the harden while they form.
Everything that looks to the future elevates human nature; for life i never so low or so little as when occupied with the present.
Everything that looks to the future elevates human nature. Never is life so low or so little as when it is occupies with the present.
Happiness is something that comes into our lives through doors we dont even remember leaving open.
A journey of a thousand miles must begin with a single step.
As for the best leaders, the people do not notice their existence. The next best, the people honour and praise. The next, the people fear, and the next the people hate. When the best leader's work is done the people say. 'we did it ourselves.' 
Begin difficult things while they are easy. Do great things when they are small. The difficult things of the world must once have been easy; the great things must once have been small. A thousand mile journey begins with one step.
Examine difficulties while they are still easy. Treat a big thing when it is small. The most diffucult enterprises in the world are easy when they appear, and the greatest enterprises spring from tiny beginnings.
If you realise that all things change, there is nothing you will hol onto. If you aren't afraid of dying, there is nothing you can't achieve Trying to control the future is like trying to take the master carpenter' place When you handle the master carpenter's tool Chances are that you'll cut your hands.
The biggest problems in the world could have been much more easily solved when they were smaller.
I have just three things to teach: simplicity, patience, compassion These three are your greatest treasures Simple in actions and in thoughts you return to the source of being Patient with both friends and enemies you accord with the way things are Compassionate toward yourself you reconcile all beings in the world.
In this world there is nothing softer or thinner than water But to compel the hard and unyielding it has no equal That the weak overcomes the strong, that the hard gives way to the gentle  This everyone knows yet no one acts accordingly.
Lay plans for the accomplishment of the difficult before it become difficult; make something big by starting with it when small.
Manifest plainness Embrace simplicity Reduce selfishness Have few desires.
There is no calamity greater than lavish desires. There is no greater guilt than discontentmen And there is no greater disaster than greed.
The Universe is sacred You cannot improve it If you try to change it, you will ruin it If you try to hold it you will lose it.
The wise person does not lay up their own treasures. The more they give to others, the more they have for their own.
 They set an example without cutting others down to size             They are conscientious without being hurtful                         They are genuine without being arbitrary                         They are bright without being blinding.
Those who know others are clever, but those who know themselves ar enlightened.
When I let go of what I am, I become what I might be. When I let go o what I have, I receive what I need.
Without stirring abroad one can know the whole world; Without looking ou of the window one can see the way to heaven. The further one goes the les one knows.
Wisdom is the quality that keeps you from getting into situations where you need it.
Wisdom is the reward you get for a lifetime of listening when youd have preferred to talk.
One can't have both a society of equal, gainfully employed men and wome and a flourishing family life unless there are radical changes in th organization of work. If we are serious about preserving 'family values' w are going to have to abandon our consumerist vision of the good life. It i consumerism that drives the 80-hour work week. When we learn that consume goods don't make us happy, we can get serious about reconstructing th family. The crucial question in America, at the end of the 20th century, i whether consumption or the family prevail.
No gain is so certain as that which proceeds from the economical use o what you already have.
We learn by teaching.
The future is not a gift -- it is an achievement.
Peace comes from knowing that every last minute has been well-spent.
There is no such thing as inevitable war. If war comes it will be fro failure of human wisdom.
Experience is a hard teacher because she gives the test first and th lesson afterwards.
Without wisdom to show us the connections between things, the specialized knowledge we bring to bear in solving one problems ends up causing problems elsewhere in our lives or in our organizations.
I got the blues thinking of the future, so I left off and made some marmalade. Its amazing how it cheers one up to shred oranges and scrub the floor.
Life is ours to be spent, not to be saved.
Life, we learn too late, is in the living, in the tissue of every da and hour.
Civilization ceases when we no longer respect and no longer put int their correct places the fundamental values, such as work, family an country; such as the individual, honor and religion.
A desk is a dangerous place from which to watch the world.
One of the most important lessons that experience teaches is that, on the whole, success depends more upon character then upon either intellect or fortune.
A good soldier knows how to fight. A great soldier knows when to fight.
The challenge we face is not producing thoughts, it is producing useful thoughts. These are thoughts that are capable of analyzing the formidable but fascinating complexity of the world in order to guide actions to yield the most appropriate or best result.
It is good to have an end to journey toward; but it is the journey tha matters in the end.
Go lightly, simply ... Just go, and follow the flowing moment Try not to cling to any experience The depths of wonder open of themselves.
To love is to place our happiness in the happiness of another.
The good life means living in the place where you belong, being with th people you love, doing the right work - on purpose.
Leadership is what you learn after you know everything that counts.
People create their own destiny. But rarely in the circumstances the would have chosen.
While the State exists, there can be no freedom. When there is freedo there will be no State.
All you need is love.
The pressures of being a parent are equal to any pressure on earth. To be a conscious parent, and really look to that little beings mental and physical health, is a responsibility which most of us, including me, avoid most of the time because its too hard.
Human subtlety -- will never devise an invention more beautiful, mor simple or more direct than does Nature, because in her inventions nothin is lacking, and nothing is superfluous.
Poor is the pupil who does not surpass their Master.
Those who possess most must be most afraid of loss.
To develop a complete mind Study the science of art Study the art of science Learn how to see Realize that everythin connects to everything else.
Wisdom is the daughter of experience.
Science itself is humanist in the sense that it doesn't discriminat between human beings, but it is also morally neutral. It is no better o worse than the ethos with and for which it is being used.
Any human anywhere will blossom in a hundred unexpected talents and capacities simply by being given the opportunity to do so.
America's future walks through the doors of our schools every day.
In the democratic way of life it is not 'the best things in life tha are free,' but rather 'the best things in life are worth working for.' 
To govern is to choose.
The wise man is not the person who gives the right answers; they ar those who ask the right questions.
I have heard tell of a Professor of Economics who has a sign on the wal of their study, reading 'the future is not what it was'. The sentiment wa admirable; unfortunately, the past is not getting any better either.
If you really want peace, you have to declare war on revenge.
If you want to truly understand something, try to change it.
Laying down your arms, surrendering, saying you are sorry, realisin that you have been on the wrong track and getting ready to start life ove again from the ground floor - that is the only way out of a hole.
The Future  something which everyone reaches at the rate of sixty minutes an hour, whatever we do, whoever, we are.
The next best thing to being wise oneself is to live in a circle of those who are.
The only people who achieve much are those who want knowledge so badl that they seek it while the conditions are still unfavourable. Favourabl conditions never come.
We have trained them (people) to think of the Future as a promised lan which favoured heroes attain -- not as something which everyone reaches a the rate of sixty minutes an hour, whatever they do, whoever they are.
The happy and efficient people in this world are those who accep trouble as a normal detail of human life and resolve to capitalise it whe it comes along. For trouble is the thing that strong people grow by. Met i the right way it is a sure-fire means of putting iron into the victim' will and making them a tougher person to down forever after.
You only live once -- but if you work it right, once is enough.
Honesty isn't any policy at all; it's a state of mind or it isn' honesty.
It is a golden rule that one should never judge people by their opinions, but rather by what their opinions make of them.
One's first step in wisdom is to question everything - and one's last is to come to terms with everything.
The wisest mind has something yet to learn.
Those who are in love with themselves have at least this advantage - they won't encounter many rivals.
There is no right without a parallel duty, no liberty without th supremacy of the law, no high destiny without earnest perseverance, n greatness without self-denial.
Learning from the past and thinking about the future are somethin that's in everyone's best interest.
Out of the best and most productive years of each person's life, the should carve a segment in which they put their private career aside t serve their community and their country, and thereby serve their children their neighbours, their fellow men, and the cause of freedom.
Authority is responsibility, hence few bear it well.
Always bear in mind that your own resolution to succeed is mor important than any other one thing.
Where there is a will there is a way...
Determine that the thing can and shall be done, and then we shall find a way.
 I don't think much of a person who is not wiser today than they wer yesterday.
If in your own judgement, you cannot be an honest lawyer, resolve to be honest without being a lawyer.
I have never had a policy; I have simply tried to do what seemed bes each day as each day came.
Most people are about as happy as they make up their minds to be.
Nearly anyone can stand adversity, but if you want to test a person' character, give them power.
The best ting about the future is that it comes only one day at a time.
The dogmas of the quiet past are inadequate to the stormy present. Th occasion is piled high with difficulty, and we must rise with the occasion As our case is new, so we must think anew and act anew. We must disenthral ourselves.
The legitimate objects of government is to do for a community of people whatever they need to have done, but cannot do at all, or cannot so well d for themselves, in their separate and individual capacities.
Those who deny freedom to others deserve it not for themselves.
You can't escape the responsibility of tomorrow by evading it today.
I do not believe that sheer suffering teaches. If suffering alon taught, all the world would be wise since everyone suffers. To sufferin must be added mourning, understanding, patience, love, openness and th willingness to remain vulnerable.
It is not the life of simplicity but the life of multiplicity that th wise person warn us of ... It does not bring grace; it destroys the sou ... It is not merely the concern of the American as such, but of our whol modern civilization, since life in America today is upheld as the ideal fo a large part of the rest of the world ... perhaps a first step, is i simplification of life, in cutting out some of the distractions.
One can never pay in gratitude: one can only pay in kind somewhere else in life.
Only in growth, reform and change, paradoxically enough, is tru security to be found.
Courage is the power to let go of the familiar.
Truth as old as the hills is bound up in the Latin proverb, 
 It is surprising what a person can do whe they have to, and how little most people will do when they don't have to.
It is perfectly true that the government is best which governs least. I is equally true that the government is best which provides the most.
It requires wisdom to understand wisdom; the music is nothing if th audience is deaf.
Life is an irreversible process and for that reason its future can neve be a repetition of the past.
The final test of a leader is that they leave behind them in others th conviction and the will to carry on.
While the right to talk may be the beginning of freedom, the necessit of listening is what makes the right important.
One realises the full importance of time only when there is little of i left. Everyone's greatest capital asset is their unexpired years o productive life.
Those who devote 16 hours a day to hard study may become as wise at 60 as they thought themselves to be at 20.
The key to a truly balanced lifestyle is not what you do on the outside, but how you feel about it.
If a person harbours any sort of fear, it percolates through all thei thinking, damages their personality and makes them landlord to a ghost.
It is probably a mistake to pursue happiness; much better to create happiness; still better to create happiness for others. The more happiness you create for others the more would be yours - a solid satisfaction that no one could ever take away from you.
Don't be afraid to take a big step if one is indicated. You can't cros a chasm in two small jumps.
If a person has peace with the universe, peace with their own soul an peace with their fellow human beings, that person has religion.
None of the things children are to learn should ever be a burden t them, or imposed on them as a task. Whatever is so imposed presentl becomes irksome; the mind takes an aversion to it, though before it were  thing of delight.
The great question which, in all ages, has disturbed the human race, an brought on them the greatest part of their mischief's, which has ruine cities, depopulated countries, and disordered the peace of the world, ha been, not whether there be power in the world, nor whence it came, but wh should have it.
The thoughts that come often unsought, and, as it were, drop into th mind, are commonly the most valuable of any we have.
Those who have read of everything are thought to understand everythin too; but it is not always so - reading furnishes the mind only with th materials of knowledge; it is thinking that makes what is read ours. We ar of the ruminating kind, and it is not enough to cram ourselves with a grea load of collections; unless we chew them over again, they will not give u strength and nourishment.
Literature is mostly about having sex and not much about havin children. Life is the other way round.
Creativity can solv almost any problem The creative act the defeat of habi by originality overcomes everything.
Leaders are made, they are not born. They are made by hard effort, which is the price which all of us must pay to achieve any goal that is worthwhile.
Wisdom is not just a cognitive capacity or repository of knowledge in the human mind, but an ethical concept  in fact a virtue  and a practical or applied ability as well.
You are on a journey through time  the time of your life  and the light ahead of you  the light you imagine and build on in the future will give meaning and coherence to what you are doing.
Of the vast oceans of data and seas filled with information; of th roaring rivers of meanings and thundering streams filled wit interpretations; there is but one small cup of wisdom Wisdom by itself does not guarantee enlightenment however; for tru enlightenment does require us to strive for the tiny drop that contains th essence.
A single conversation across the table from a wise person is better than ten years mere study of books.
Let us then be up and doin With a heart for any fate Still achieving, still pursuing Learn to labour and to wait.
Life is real! Life is earnest And the grave is not the goal Dust thou art, to dust returnest Was not spoken of the soul.
Lives of great men all remind u We can make our lives sublime And, departing, leave behind u Footprints on the sands of time.
O what a glory doth this world put on For him who with fervent heart goes forth Under the bright and glorious sky and look On duties well performed, and days well spent.
Talk not of wasted affection       affection never was wasted       If it enrich not the heart of another       Its waters returning back t       their springs       like the rain shall fill them full of refreshmen       That which the fountain send       forth returns again to the fountain.
The lowest ebb is the turn of the tide.
The talent of success is nothing more than doing what you can do wel and doing well whatever you do without thought of fame.
Trust no Future, howe'er pleasant Let the dead Past bury its dead Act -- act in the living present Heart within, and God o'erhead!
We judge ourselves by what we are capable of doing, while others judge us by what we have already done.
What is time? The shadow on the dial, the striking of the clock, th running of the sand, day, night, summer, winter, months, years, centurie -- these are but arbitrary and outward signs, the measure of time not Tim itself. Time is the life of the Soul.
No sex without responsibility.
Our feelings are our most genuine paths to knowledge.
Mistakes are part of the dues one pays for a full life.
It's good to have money and the things that money can buy, but it's good too, to check up once in a while and make sure that you haven't lost the things that money can't buy.
You've got to get up every morning with determination if you're going to go to bed with satisfaction.
Circumstances are the rulers of the weak, they are but the instrument of the wise.
Ecstasy is full, deep involvement in life.
Every now and again take a good look at something not made with hands - a mountain, a star, the turn of a stream. There will come to you wisdom and patience and solace and, above all, the assurance that you are not alone in the world.
Nobody grows old by merely living a number of years. People grow ol only by deserting their ideals. Years wrinkle the face, but to give u enthusiasm wrinkles the soul.
There is only one thin that will really train the human min and that is the voluntary use of the min by the person themself you may guide them you may suggest to them and, above all else, you may inspire them But the only thing worth havin is that which they get their own exertions and what they ge is in direct proportio to what they put into it.
Not failure, but low aim is the crime.
Truly there is a tide in the affairs of men; but there is no gulf-strea setting forever in one direction.
Truly there is a tide in the affairs of men; but don't forget th tide changes direction ever six hours! 
How alike are the groans of love to those of the dying.
It we succeed in giving the love of learning, the learning itself is sure to follow.
Civilization is just a slow process of learning to be kind.
In the final analysis, there is no other solution to a person's problem but the day's honest work, the day's honest decisions, the day's generou utterance, and the day's good deed.
Business more than any other occupation is a continual dealings with th future; it is a continual calculation, an instinctive exercise i foresight.
And life is given to none freehold, but it is leasehold for all.
For which of you, intending to build a tower, sitteth not down first and counteth the cost, whether they have sufficient to finish it.
For unto whomsoever much is given, of those shall much be required and t whom much committed, of those will be more asked.
Love is part of work. Not romantic love, but love in the sense o caring, or caritas, which means compassion. Out of that comes commitment energy, innovation, and quality service.
We are born with sparks for many virtues. Which ones we choose to ignit and to what degree we ignite them affects the quality of our lives and al those around us. It is on this bedrock that we can build a new life.
 Everything that is done in the world is done by hope.
To create is always to do something new.
Knowledge is power only if you know what facts not to bother about.
One of the greatest joys known to man is to take a flight into ignoranc in search of knowledge.
the only gracious way to accept an insult is to ignore it; if you cant ignore it, top it; if you cant top it, laugh at it; if you cant laugh at it, its probably deserved.
Yesterday is a cancelled cheque; tomorrow is a promissory note; today i the only cash you have - so spend it wisely.
The question for each person to settle is not what they would do if the had means, time, influence and educational advantages, but what they wil do with the things they have.
Nobody grows old by merely living a number of years. People grow ol only by deserting their ideals.
The only security is in the pursuit of opportunity.
There is no security on this earth; there is only opportunity
Years wrinkle the skin, but to give up enthusiasm wrinkles the soul.
The highest genius is willingness and ability to do hard work. Any othe conception of genius makes it a doubtful, if not a dangerous, possession.
It is evident that many great and useful objects can be attained in thi world only by cooperation.
Knowledge advances by steps, and not be leaps.
The highest proof of virtue is to possess boundless power withou abusing it.
The measure of a person's real character is what they would do if the knew they would never be found out.
...Life, for all its agonies of despair and loss and guilt, is excitin and beautiful, amusing and artful and endearing, full of liking and love at times a poem and a high adventure, at times noble and at times very gay and whatever (if anything) is to come after it -- we shall not have thi life again.
No wise person is ever arrogant enough to call themselves wise.
Taking steps now to become wise is not another elitist retreat from the problems experienced by the majority of the worlds people. It is, in fact, the most effective possible long-term attack on these problems.
Conversation means being able to disagree and still continue th conversation.
The best preparation for the future is the present well seen to, and the last duty done.
The educated person is someone with a certain subtle spiritual qualit which makes them calm in adversity, happy when alone, just in thei dealings, rational and sane in the fullest meaning of that word in all th affairs of life.
Happiness is not so much in having or sharing. We make a living by wha we get, but we make a life by what we give.
Many a person never fails because they never try.
Throw away those books and cassettes on inspirational leadership. Send those consultants packing. Know your job, set a good example for the people under you and put results over politics. Thats all the charisma youll really need to succeed.
A multitude is strong while it holds together, but so soon as each o those who compose it begins to think of their own private danger, i becomes weak and contemptible.
A prince who is not himself wise cannot be wisely advised .... goo advice depends on the shrewdness of the prince who seeks it, and not th shrewdness of the prince on good advice.
A wise person will see to it that their acts always seem voluntary and not done by compulsion, however much they may be compelled by necessity.
It is not titles that honor men, but men that honor titles.
There is nothing more difficult to carry out, nor more doubtful o success, nor more dangerous to handle, than to initiate a new order o things. For the reformer has enemies in all those who profit by the olde order, and only lukewarm defended in all those who would profit by the ne order, this lukewarmness arising partly from fear of their adversaries, wh have the laws in their favour; and partly from the incredulity of mankind who do not truly believe in anything new until they have had actua experience of it.
Where the willingness is great, the difficulties cannot be great.
Where there is a will there is a way
Nothing is interesting if you're not interested.
There is no such thing as death in nature, nothing dies From each sad moment of deca Some forms of life arise.
Find something you love to do and you'll never have to work a day i your life.
All meaningful knowledge is for the sake of action, and all meaningfu action for the sake of friendship.
If it is something feasible, obtainable Let us dream it now And pray for a possible land .. Where the altars of sheer powe and more profi Have fallen to disuse Where nobody sees the us of buying money and bloo at the cost of blood and money Where the individual, no longer squandere in self-assertion, works with the rest ...
A person's work is their dilemma; their job is their bondage, but i also gives them a fair share of their identity and keeps them from being  bystander in somebody else's world.
It's a good feeling to be powerful. I've been striving for it all m life. I think that's just the quest of every human being - power.
The finest gift of life, after all, is not its duration, but its donation.
Each person has to seek out their own special aptitude for a higher lif in the midst of the humble and inevitable reality of daily existence. Tha this, there can be no nobler aim in life.
In the solitude of your mind are the answers to all your questions abou life. You must take the time to ask and listen.
You can tell whether a person is clever by their answers. You can tell whether they are wise by their questions.
If the mind is happy, not only the body but the whole world will b happy. So you must find out how to become happy yourself. Wanting to refor the world without discovering your true self is like trying to cover th whole world with leather to avoid the pain of walking on stones and thorns It is much simpler to wear shoes.
The purpose of freedom is to create it for others.
The future belongs to those who prepare for it today.
O grant me heav'n, a middle stat Neither too humble or too great More than enough for nature's ends With something left to treat my friends.
I have never in my life learned anything from any man who agreed wit me.
Our civilization ... is not devaluing its awareness of the unknowable nor is it defying it. It is the first civilization that has severed it fro religion and superstition. In order to question it.
The third millennium will be spiritual or there will be no thir millennium.
A Bill of Rights is an important statement about the nature of powe relations in any society.
Anger is a temporary felling -- you soon forget it, particularly if yo are involved in positive activities and attitudes.
As a leader  I have always endeavoured to listen to what each and every person in a discussion had to say before venturing my own opinion. Often times, my own opinion will simply represent a consensus of what I heard in the discussion. I always remember the axiom: a leader is like a shepherd. Their stay behind the flock, letting the most nimble go out ahead, where upon the others follow, not realizing that all along they are being directed from behind.
Conflict threatens not only the gains we have made but also ou collective future.
I have become more convinced than ever that the real makers of history are the ordinary men and women of our country; their participation in every decision about the future is the only guarantee of true democracy and freedom.
No true alliance can be built on the shifting sands of evasions, illusions and opportunism.
Rhetoric is not important. Actions are.
The purpose of studying history is not to deride human action, not to weep over it or to hate it, but to understand it -- and then to learn from it as we contemplate our future.
The spirit of ubuntu, that profound African sense that we are human only through the humanity of other human beings -- is not a parochial phenomenon, but has added globally to our common search for a better world.
This has placed a great responsibility on my shoulders.
Beginning today, treat everyone you meet as if they were going to be dead by midnight. Extend to them all the care kindness, and understanding you can muster, and do it with no thought of any reward. Your life will never be the same again.
If you educate a man you educate a person, but if you educate a women you educate a family.
Of Paradise can I not speak properly, for I have not been there.
Treasure the love you receive above all. It will survive long after your gold and good health have vanished.
Beginning today, treat everyone you meet as if they were going to be dead by midnight. Extend to them all the care, kindness, and understanding you can muster, and do it with no thought of any reward. Your life will never be the same again.
One instant of total awareness, is one instant of perfect freedom an enlightenment.
Be ashamed to die until you have won some victory for humanity.
It is well when the wise and the learned discover new truths; but ho much better to diffuse the truths already discovered amongst th multitudes. Every addition to true knowledge is an addition to human power and while a philosopher is discovering one new truth, millions of truth may be propagated amongst the people .... The whole land must be watere with the streams of knowledge.
There is nothing so costly as ignorance.
The sign of an intelligent people is their ability to control emotion by the application of reason.
A pessimist is one who makes difficulties of their opportunities; a optimist is one who makes opportunities of their difficulties.
Life never becomes a habit to me. It's always a marvel.
Like everything else in life, I mean all suffering ... we have to fin the gift in it. We can't afford to waste such an expenditure of feelings we have to learn from it.
Regret is an appalling waste of energy; you can't build on it; it's onl good for wallowing in.
Any person worth their salt will stick up for what they believe to b right, but it takes a slightly bigger person to acknowledge instantly an without reservation that they are in error.
There is a wonderful mythical law of nature that the three things w crave most in life - happiness, freedom and peace of mind - are alway attained by giving them to someone else.
We win half the battle when we make up our minds to take the world as w find it, including the thorns.
Wisdom is knowledge which has become a part of ones being.
Our destiny changes with our thought; we shall become what we wish to become, do what we wish to do, when our habitual thought corresponds with our desire.
The greatest thing a person can do in this world is to make the most possible out of the stuff that has been given them. This is success, and there is no other.
There is no medicine like hope, no incentive so great, no tonic s powerful as the expectation of something tomorrow.
Wisdom is knowledge which has become a part of ones being.
It is not futile sometimes to be dissatisfied with life. To b dissatisfied with the order of human affairs as they are, also means t start building a better world.
We thoroughly enjoy the work of people only if the enjoyment of thei work can be applied with respect and love for the person.
Ours is a world where peopl don't know what they wan and are willing to g through hell to get it.
The goal of all civilization, all religious thought and all that sort o thing is simply to have a good time. But people get so solemn over th process that they forget the end.
When a person tells you they got rich through hard work, ask the whose?
Leaders are able to cope with ambiguity. If everything were black and white, everyone could do it. But most things in business are grey.
And if a kingdom be divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand And if a house be divided against itself, that house cannot stand.
For what shall it profit someone, if they shall gain the whole world and lose their own soul! Or what shall someone give in exchange for thei soul?
Commit the Golden Rule to memory -- now commit it to life.
In vain we build the city if we not first build the person.
I will not die an unlived life I will not live to fea of falling or catching fire I choose to inhabit my days to allow my living to open m to make me less afraid more accessible to loosen my hear until it becomes a wing a torch, a promise I choose to risk my significance To liv so that which came to me as seed goes to the next as blosso and that which cam to me as blossom goes on as fruit.
An optimist is someone that has never had much experience.
It is not true that people stop pursuing dreams because they grow old, they grow old because they stop pursuing dreams.
A pessimist is someone who has had to listen to too many optimists.
When a person tells you that they got rich through hard work, ask them Whose work?
The finest gift you can give anyone is encouragement.
A good person doubles the length of their existence; to have lived so a to look back with pleasure on our past life is to live twice.
We are all born charming, fresh and spontaneous and must be civilize before we are fit to participate in society.
Work is the true elixir of life. The busiest person is the happies person. Excellence in any art or profession is attained only by hard an persistent work. Never believe that you are perfect. When a perso imagines, even after years of striving, that they have attained perfection their decline begins.
Nature is the wisest, the only infallible teacher, and her lore is inexhautible. Books are but her interpreters, and though valuable aids when she is silent, are never to be preferred to her lessons of wisdom.
The mere lapse of years is not life. To eat, to drink, and sleep; to b exposed to darkness and the light; to pace around in the mill of habit, an turn thought into an instrument of trade -- this is not life. Knowledge truth, love, beauty, goodness, faith, alone can give vitality to th mechanism of existence.
The mere lapse of years is not life. To eat, to drink and sleep; to b exposed to darkness and the light; to pace around in the mill of habit an turn thought into an instrument of trade -- this is not life. Knowledge truth, love, beauty, goodness, faith, alone can give vitality to th mechanism of existence.
By the time your life is finished, you will have learned just enough to begin it well.
History repeats itself. The first time it is tragedy, the second time i is farce.
The philosophers have only interpreted the world in various ways; th point is to change it.
It is good to be out on the road and going one knows not where Going through meadow and village One knows not whither nor why.
The days that make us happy make us wise.
I can feel guilty about the past, apprehensive about the future, bu only in the present can I act. The inability to be in the present moment is  major component of mental wellness.
To make the growth choice instead of the fear choice a dozen times  day is to move a dozen times a day towards self-actualisation.
The aim of education should be to convert the mind into a livin fountain, and not a reservoir. That which is filled by merely pumping in will be emptied by pumping out.
The more the world is specialised the more it will be run by generalists.
Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow; they toil not, neithe do they spin. And yet I say unto you, that even Solomon in all his glor was not arrayed like one of these.
In everything do to others as you would have them do to you.
Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth.
If you live by the sword, you will die by the sword.
A great deal of the joy of life consists in doing perfectly, or at leas to the best of one's ability, everything which one attempts to do. There i a sense of satisfaction, a pride in surveying such a work, a work which i rounded, full, exact, complete in all its parts -- which the superficia person, who leaves their work in a slovenly, slipshod, half-finishe condition can never know. It is this conscientious completeness which turn work into art. The smallest thing, well done, becomes artistic.
Solitary reading will enable a person to stuff themself wit information, but without conversation their mind will become like a pon without an outlet -- a mass of unhealthy stagnant water. It is not enoug to harvest knowledge by study; the wind of talk must willow it and blo away the chaff. Then will the clear, bright grains of wisdom be garnered for our own use or that of others.
From the earliest time the old have rubbed it into the young that they are wiser, and before the young had discovered what nonsense this was they were old too, and it profited them to carry on the imposture.
Imagination grows by exercise, and contrary to common belief, is more powerful in the mature than in the young.
It is bad enough to know the past; it would be intolerable to know the future.
Life is too short to do anything for oneself that one can pay others to do for one.
The common idea that success spoils people by making them vain egotistic and self complacent is erroneous -- on the contrary it make them, for the most part, humble, tolerant and kind. Failure makes peopl bitter and cruel.
The degree of a nation's civilization is marked by its disregard for the necessities of existence.
This is not so strange when you reflect that from the earliest time, th old have rubbed it into the young that they are wiser than they, and befor the young had discovered what nonsense this was they were old too, and i profited them to carry on the imposture.
The only one thing of which I am certain is that there is very little about which I am certain.
When you choose your friends, dont get short-changed by choosing personality over character.
You can't learn too soon that the most useful thing about a principle i that it can always be sacrificed to expediency.
If people could regard the events of their own lives with more ope minds they would frequently discover that they did not really desire th things they failed to obtain.
Information is not culture. In the mind of a truly educated person facts are organized, and they make up a living world in the image of th world of reality.
The first recipe for happiness is: Avoid too lengthy meditations on th past.
The greatest day in your life and mine is when we take responsibility for our attitudes. Thats the day we truly grow up.
You add value to people when you value them.
We should certainly count our blessings, but we should also make our blessings count.
Anxiety is essential to the human condition. The confrontation wit anxiety can relieve us from boredom, sharpen the sensitivity and assure th presence of tension that is necessary to preserve human existence.
Depression is the inability to construct a future.
Progress consists largely of learning to apply laws and truths that have always existed.
It isn't more light we need, isn't more truth, and it isn't mor scientific data. It is more courage, more spiritual insight to act on th light we have.
The tragedy in life is not in failing to realise one's goal, but i failing to have goals to realise.
No nation deserves freedom or can long retain it which does not win i for itself. Revolutions must be made by the people and for the people.
The duties of mankind are divided into two parts: one is the increase of goodness in humanity, and the other is the continuation of the human race. At present, most men participate in the first and most women participate in the second. Man and woman are two notes without which the music of humanity, cannot create harmony.
I touch the future, I teach.
If ones life reaches to or beyond 70, one must have acquired some wisdom along the way or be intellectually dead or a damned fool.
Mma Ramotswes advice on the subject of happiness. She is quite clear that the surest way to be happy is to cause happiness in others and then to enjoy it oneself. I think she is right.
The foundations of the world will be shaky until the moral props ar restored.
I believe a good boss must be able to relate to people's spiritual need -- if not directly, then by recognizing that our individual desire to touc heaven, to seek that spark of divinity within each of us, is the greates power on earth. It is the force that motivates all people, and must be s recognised to unleash the tremendous force for good that resides in eac and everyone of us.
The most infectiously joyous people are those who forget themselves i thinking about others and serving others. Happiness comes not b deliberately courting and wooing it but by giving oneself in self-effacin surrender to great values.
Information isnt wisdom. Information isnt learning. If information were learning, you could be educated by memorizing the world almanac. If you did that, you wouldnt be educated. Youd be weird.
The world belongs to the enthusiast who keeps cool.
There is no more noble occupation in the world than to assist another human being  to help someone succeed.
When a person begins to understand themselves they begin to live. Whe they begin to live they begin to understand their fellows.
The best way to teach our young peopl the meaning of our democratic freedom is to demonstrate, by our own example, that we have mastere the 'three R's of citizenship' - Rights, Respects and Responsibilities.
Man is a wanting animal -- as soon as one of his needs is satisfied another appears in its place. This process is unending. It continues fro birth to death.
Accept the pain, cherish the joys, resolve the regrets; then can com the best of benedictions - 'If I had my life to live over, I'd do it al the same.' 
Every society honors its live conformists and its dead troublemakers.
Every society is often composed of the weakness that we're damned if w are going to show.
The only courage that matters is the kind that gets you from one momen to the next.
We'd all like a reputation for generosity and we'd all like to buy i cheap.
There is an old saying that goes: Once the last tree is cut and the las river poisoned, you will find you cannot eat your money.
You can only lead others where you yourself are willing to go.
Shoot for the moon. Even if you miss you will land amongst the stars.
Art at its most significant is a Distant Early Warning System that ca always be relied on to tell the old culture what is beginning to happen t it.
The meaning of a message is the change which it produces in the image.
Violence is the quest for identity. When identity disappears wit technological innovation, violence is the natural recourse.
Yes, risk taking is inherently failure-prone. Otherwise it would be called sure-thing-taking.
Too many of us are hung up on what we dont have, cant have. Or wont ever have. We spend too much energy being down, when we could use that same energy  if not less of it  doing, or at least trying to do, some of the things we really want to do.
The essence of wisdom is to strive for that balance between knowing and doubting.
Wisdom lies not in what is known but rather the manner in which that knowledge is held and in how that knowledge is put to use.
Adults need children in their lives to keep their imagination fres and their hearts youn and to make the future a realit for which they are willing to work.
Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful committed people can chang the world; indeed it is the only thing that ever has.
We are living beyond our means. As a people we have developed  life-style that is draining the earth of its priceless and irreplaceabl resources without regard for the future of our children and people al around the world.
Suppose we went at a slow enough pace ... to feel our bodies, play wit children, look openly, without agenda or timetable into the faces of love ones ....Suppose we took time each day to sit in silence. I think if we di those things the world wouldn't need much saving.
Live your life each day as you would climb a mountain. An occasiona glance toward the summit keeps the goal in mind, but many beautiful scene are to be observed from each new vantage point. Climb slowly, steadily enjoying each passing moment; and the view from the summit will serve as  fitting climax for the journey.
We cannot live only for ourselves. A thousand fibres connect us with ou fellow human beings; and along those fibres, as sympathetic threads, ou actions run as causes, and they come back to us as effects.
What goes around, comes around.
The great person is someone who does not lose their child's-heart.
Conscience is the inner voice that warns us someone may be looking.
Force without wisdom falls of its own weight.
People become civilised, not in proportion to their willingness t believe, but in proportion to their willingness to doubt.
No matter how long he live, no man ever becomes as wise as the average women of firty-eiight.
 The older I grow the more I distrust the familiar doctrine that age brings wisdom.
There is something even more valuable to civilization than wisdom, and that is character.
Listening is a magnetic and strange thing, a creative force. The friend who listen to us are the ones we move toward, and we want to sit in thei radius. When we are listened to, it creates us, makes us unfold an expand.
Love cures people  both the ones who give it and the ones who receive it.
What's done to children, they will do to society.
 Six essential qualities that are the key to success. Sincerity, personal integrity, humility, courtesy, wisdom, charity.
Genius does what it must, and talent does what it can.
Be skilful in speech, that you may be strong; (.) it is the strength of (.) the tongue, and words are braver than  all fighting . A wise person is a school for the magnates, and those who are aware of their knowledge do not attack them.
 Instill the love of you into all the world, for a good character is what is remembered.
Respectable men and women content with the good and easy living ar missing some of the most important things in life. Unless you give yoursel to some great cause you haven't even begun to live.
If you are yourself at peace, then there is at least some peace in th world. Then share your peace with everyone, and everyone will be at peace.
If you have love you will do all things well.
Our real journey in life is interior; it is a matter of growth deepening, and of an ever greater surrender to the creative action of lov and grace in our hearts. Never was it more necessary for us to respond t that action.
The truth that many people never understand, until it is too late, i that the more you try to avoid suffering the more you suffer becaus smaller and more insignificant things begin to torture you in proportion t your fear of being hurt.
The word 'freedom' means for me not a point of departure but a genuin point of arrival. The point of departure is defined by the word 'order' Freedom cannot exist without the concept of order.
There comes a point in any organization where too much supervision mean that supervisors spend too much time writing memorandums to one another making needless telephone calls to one another, and the like, with no mor productive work being accomplished in the aggregate, and possibly eve less. We must strike the correct balance between too much supervision, an too little supervision.
Leading organisations successfully requires leaders to transform themselves personally.
If people knew how hard I worked to achieve my mastery, it wouldnt seem so wonderful at all.
The greater dange for most of u is not that our aim i too hig and we miss it but that it i too lo and we reach it.
When they asked Michelangelo how he made his statue of David he i reported to have said. 'It is easy. You just chip away the stone tha doesn't look like David.'
The master in the art of living makes little distinction between their work and their play, their labour and their leisure, their mind and their body, their information and their recreation, their love and their religion. They hardly know which is which. They simply pursue their vision of excellence in whatever they do, leaving others to decide whether they are working or playing. To them they are always doing both.
... Start doing things you think should be done, and start being wha you think society should become. Do you believe in free speech? Then spea freely. Do you love the truth? Then tell it. Do you believe in an ope society? Then act in the open. Do you believe in a decent and human society? Then behave decently and humanely.
Ask yourself whether you are happy and you cease to be so.
No great improvements in the lot of mankind are possible, until a grea change takes place in the fundamental constitution of their modes o thought.
The liberty of the individual must be thus far limited; they must no make themselves a nuisance to other people.
The only freedom which deserves the name is that of pursuing our ow good in our own way, so long as we do not attempt to deprive others o theirs or impede their efforts to obtain it.
The only purpose for which power can be rightfully exercised over an member of a civilized community, against their will is to prevent harm t others. Their own good, either physical or moral, is not sufficien warrant.
The true virtue of human beings is fitness to live together as equals claiming nothing for themselves but what they as freely concede to everyon else; regarding command of any kind as an exceptional necessity, and in al cases a temporary one.
And all the loveliest things there b Come simply, so it seems to me.
It is not true that life is one damn thing after another -- it's on damn thing over and over.
My candle burns at both ends It will not last the night But ah, my foes, and ah, my friends  It gives a lovely light.
Living is a form of not being sure, not knowing what next or how. The moment you know how, you begin to die a little. The artist never entirely knows. We guess. We may be wrong, but we take leap after leap in the dark.
People love to talk but hate to listen. Listening is not merely not talking, though even that is beyond most of our powers; it means taking a vigorous, human interest in what is being told us. You can listen like a blank wall or like a splendid auditorium where every sound comes back fuller and richer.
(Life) is an endless, truly endless struggle. Theres no time when we are going to arrive at a plateau where the whole thing gets sorted. Its a struggle in the way every plant has to find its own way to stand up straight. A lot of the time its a failure. And yet its not a failure if some enlightenment comes from it.
The trouble with worrying so much about your security in the future is that you feel so insecure in the present.
The one thing we can never get enough of is love. And the one thing we never give enough of is love.
Its good to be just plain happy; its a little better to know that youre happy; but to understand that youre happy and to know why and how . And still be happy, be happy in the being and the knowing, well that is beyond happiness, that is bliss.
Wherever one goes in this civilized world, one always finds the same set-up. The little man, the man who does the dirty work, the producer is of no importance, receives no consideration, and is always being asked to make the greatest sacrifice. Yet everything depends on this forgotten man. Not  wheel could turn without his support and co-operation. It is this man, whose number is legion, who has no voice in world affairs ... he knows that he has been robbed and cheated from time immemorial. He is suffocated with all this bitter knowledge. He waits and waits hoping that time will alte things. And slowly he realises that time alters nothing. That with time things only grow worse. One day, he will decide to act. 'Wait!' he will be told. ... 'Wait just a little longer.' But he will refuse to wait another second.
In a life well lived, each succeeding day becomes better than the last. Each day, each year, each experience does not stand alone; it cannot be separated from what has happened before or what may happen after. Yesterday determines today, and today helps determine tomorrow.
Knowledge is not enough. Knowledge is knowing about the things which you can control, which you can master. Wisdom is knowing about and putting yourself under the influence of things which can master you.
Ideas are the real substance of human life. Ideas guide our actions and even control our movements. It is just as well to put them in order first and then to display their anatomy.
If you will call your troubles experiences, and remember that every experience develops some latent force within you, you will grow vigorous and happy, however adverse your circumstances may seem to be.
Heaven is for thee too hig To know what passes there; be lowly wise Think only what concerns thee and thy being.
Licence they mean when they cry liberty For who loves that, must first be wise and good.
O impotence of mind, in body strong But what is strength without a double share of wisdom.
The first and wisest of them all professed To know this only, that he nothing knew.
To know that which lies before us in daily life is the prime wisdom.
Where there is much desire to learn, there of necessity will be muc arguing, much writing, many opinions; for opinion in good men is bu knowledge in the making.
The old thought that one cannot be rich except at the expense of ou neighbour, must pass away. True prosperity adds to the richness of th whole world, such as that of the person who makes two trees grow where onl one grew before. The parasitical belief in prosperity as coming from th sacrifices of others has no place in the mind that thinks true. My benefi is your benefit, your success is my success, should be the basis of all ou wealth.
Making the simple complicated is commonplace; making the complicated simple awesomely simple, thats creativity.
If you just stop thinking about yourself all the time, happiness and confidence will come naturally
Exploring the question brings more wisdom than having the answer.
A good listener is not only popular everywhere, but after a while the get to know something.
Be nice to people on your way up because you'll meet them on your wa down.
Measures need to be good enough to be useful, but not so tedious o exacting that one forgets why one measures.
Or gets diminishing returns from the process, or the results are only o 'academic' interest.
A persons treatment of money is the decisive test of their character  how they make it and how they spend it.
Every good act is charity. A persons true wealth hereafter is the good that they do in this world to their fellows.
It is not what we do, but also what we do not do, for which we ar accountable.
To live without loving is not really to live.
People may yet restore themselves to health, if they will learn t understand themselves in relation to the world of nature in which the evolved as an integral part, and to appreciate the nature of thei relationship to the world of nature.
What are those traits of childhood behaviour that are so valuable ye tend to disappear gradually as human beings grow older? We have only t watch children to see them clearly displayed: Curiosity is one of the mos important, imaginativeness; playfulness; open-mindedness; willingness t experiment; flexibility; humour; energy; receptiveness to new ideas honesty; eagerness to learn; and perhaps the most pervasive and the mos valuable of all: the need to love Children ask questions endlessly: 
They watch, and they listen. They want to kno everything about everything. They can keep themselves busy for hours wit the simplest toys, endowing sticks and stones and featureless objects wit personalities and histories, imaging elaborate stories about them, buildin sagas that continue day after day, month after month. They play game endlessly, sometimes carefully constructing the rules, sometimes developin the game as they go alone. They accept changes without defensiveness. Whe they try to accomplish something and fail, they are able to try it anothe way, and another until they find a way that works. They laugh - babie smile and laugh from sheer exuberance and happiness. Unless they fea punishment, they tell the truth; they call the shots as they see them. An they soak up knowledge and information like sponges; they are learning al the time; every moment is filled with learning.
The moments of happiness we enjo take us by surprise It is not that we seize them, but that they seize us.
There is no limit to what a person can do as long as they do not care  straw for who gets the credit.
Civility costs nothing and buys everything.
A wise person sees as much as they ought, not as much as they can.
It is in the enjoyment and not in mere possession that makes fo happiness.
Everyone rushes elsewhere and into the future, because no one wants to face ones own inner self.
It should be noted that children at play are not playing about; their games should be seen as their most serious-minded activity.
People are nothing until they are excited.
The greatest thing in the world is to know how to be oneself.
The most certain sign of wisdom is cheerfulness.
The most evident token and apparent sign of true wisdom is a constan and unconstrained rejoicing.
The plainest sign of wisdom is continual cheerfulness; that state i like that of things in the regions above the moon, always clear an serene.
The value of life lies not in the length of days but in the use you mak of them; they have lived for a long time who has little lived. Whether you have lived enough depends not on the number of your years but on your will.
The wise person works by all the virtues together, though one be most apparent.
We can be knowledgeable with other people's knowledge, but we cannot b wise with other people's wisdom.
The real history, the one that counts and is not to be found in books is precisely this one, the one made by simple people; and it is the onl one that rules the world.
A wishbone is no substitute for a backbone.
If one only wishes to be happy, this could be easily accomplished; bu we wish to be happier than other people, and this is always difficult, fo we believe others to be happier than they are.
To become truly great, one has to stand with people, not above them.
And if education is always to be conceived along the same antiquate lines of a mere transmission of knowledge, there is little to be hoped fro it in the bettering of the future of the human race. For what is the use o transmitting knowledge if the individual's total development lag behind.
The aim of education should not be to teach how to use human energies to improve the environment, for we are finally beginning to realise that the cornerstone of education is the development of the human personality, and that in this regard education is of immediate importance for the salvation of mankind.
There is so much in the world for us all if we only have the eyes to see it, and the heart to love it, and the hand to gather it to ourselves.
The measure of a person is not the number of their servants but in the number of people they serve.
The gifts and talents you have been given do not belong to you. You have them on loan - in trust - to make what you can of them for the betterment of humanity.
A person travels the world over in search of what they need and returns home to find it.
The secret of life is to have a task, something you devote your entire life to, something you bring everything to, every minute of the day. And the most important thing is, it must be something you cannot possibly do.
Take chances, make mistakes. Thats how you grow. Pain nourishes your courage. You have to fail in order to practice being brave.
Wisdom is a life that knows it is living.
Obstacles are those frightful things you see when you take your eyes off the goal.
It is not so important to know everything as to know the exact value of everything, to appreciate what we learn and to arrange what we know.
Lack of something to feel important about is almost the greatest tragedy a person may have.
There is deep intuitive wisdom in this American tolerance of economic variety and in our refusal to commit ourselves to any one social and economic system. It is recognition of the fact that life and truth are too varied and complex to be confined within the pattern of any single deliberately planned economic system.
As knowledge increases, wonder deepens.
Wisdom comes not from experience but from meditating on experience and assimilating it.
Never turn down a job because you think it's too small, you don't know where it can lead.
There is only one success -- to be able to spend your life in your own way.
A right without an attendant responsibility is as unreal as a sheet of paper which has only one side.
The power of the state is measured by the power that people surrender t it.
It is not enough to do good; one must do it in the right way.
In extreme youth, in our most humiliating sorrow, we think we are alone When we are older we find that others have suffered too.
Life is like a very short visit to a toy shop between birth and death.
Fellowship is heaven, and lack of fellowship is hell: fellowship i life, and lack of fellowship is death: and the deeds that ye do upon th earth, it is for fellowship's sake that ye do them.
The reward of labour is life.
Only a culture without hope cannot forgive - a culture that does 't believe in progress or redemption. Have we so little faith in ourselve we can't accept the possibility of maturation, change, cure?
Morrison, John A * Freedom is choosing your responsibility. Its not having no responsibilities; its choosing the ones you want.
The world is divided into people who do things and people who get th credit. Try, if you can, to belong to the first class. There's far les competition.
What lies behind us and what lies before us are tiny matters compared t what lies within us.
Wisdom is harder to DO than it is to know.
I can't think of a more wonderful thanksgiving for the life I have ha than that everyone should be jolly at my funeral.
A person's true wealth is the good they do in this world.
Four things support the world: the learning of the wise, the justice of the great, the prayers of the good, and the valour of the brave.
There are three signs of a hypocrite: when they speaks they speaks lies, when they makes a promise they break it, and when they are trusted they betray their trust.
There is no better ruler than Wisdom no safer Guardian than Justice no stronger sword than Righteousness no surer ally than Truth.
Everybody needs beauty as well as bread, places to play in and pray in where nature may heal and cheer and give strength to body and soul alike.
The clearest way into the Universe is through a wilderness.
To say, for example, that individuals are made up of certain chemica elements is a satisfactory description only for those who intend to us them as a fertiliser.
A society that gives to one class all the opportunities for leisure, an to another all the burdens of work, dooms both classes to spiritua sterility.
Mans chief purpose . Is the creation and preservation of values; that is what gives meaning to our civilization, and the participation in this is what gives significance, ultimately, to the individual human life.
Every generation revolts against its fathers and makes friends with it grandfathers.
The chief purpose of the human race ... is the creation and preservatio of values; that is what gives meaning to our civilization, and th participation in this is what gives significance, ultimately, to th individual life.
The habit of saving is itself an education, it fosters every virtue teaches self-denial, cultivates the sense of order, trains to forethought and so broadens the mind.
The meaning, the value, the truth of life, can be learned only by a actual performance of its duties, and truth can be learned and the sou saved in no other way.
Freedom is not choosing; that is merely the move that we make when al is already lost. Freedom is knowing and understanding and respecting thing quite other than ourselves.
Love is the extremely difficult realisation that something other tha oneself is real. Love, and so art and morals, is the discovery of reality.
Money is like manure. If you spread it around it does a lot of good, bu if you pile it up in one place it stinks like hell.
I was greatly influenced by one of my teachers. She had a zeal not s much for perfection as for steady betterment -- she demanded not excellenc so much as integrity.
To be persuasive we must be believable. To be believable we must be credible. To be credible, we must be truthful.
In strategy it is important to see distant things as if they are close and to take a distanced view of close things.
I think a secure profession for young people is history teacher, because in the future, there will be so much more of it to teach.
Happiness grows less from the passive experience of desirable circumstances than from involvement in valued activities and progress toward ones goals.
Life is a great surprise. I do not see why death should not be an eve greater one.
Too many wish to be happy before becoming wise.
I have a theory of power; that if it's going to be responsible it has t have something to lose.
Wisdom is like a mass of fire -- it cannot be entered from any side     Wisdom is like a clear cool pool -- it can be entered from any side.
You can tell whether a person is clever by their answers. You can tell whether they are wise by their questions.
If you won't be better tomorrow than you were today, then what do yo need tomorrow for?
With courage, you will dare to take risks, have the strength to b compassionate and the wisdom to be humble. Courage is the foundation o integrity.
Intuition becomes increasingly valuable in the new information societ precisely because there is so much data.
The most exciting breakthrough of the 21st century will occur no because of technology, but because of an expanding concept of what it mean to be human.
The most reliable way to anticipate the future is to try to understand the present.
The primary challenge of leadership in the 1990s is to encourage th new, better-educated worker to be more entrepreneurial, self-managing, an oriented towards lifelong learning.
A leader is a dealer in hope.
Riches do not consist in the possession of treasures but in the use mad of them.
Space you can recover, time never.
Take time to deliberate, but when the time for action has arrived, stop thinking and go in.
The art of choosing people is not nearly so difficult as the art o enabling those one has chosen to attain their full worth.
The battlefield is a scene of constant chaos. The winner will be the one who controls that chaos, both their own and the enemies.
To get to power, you need to display absolute pettiness. To exercise power you need to show true greatness. Such pettiness and such greatness are rarely found in one human being.
Do not wait; the time will never be just right. Start where you stand, and work with whatever tools you may have at your command, and better tools will be found as you go along.
You can tell whether a person is clever by their answers. You can tell whether a person is wise by their questions.
It takes a highly intellectual individual to enjoy leisure .... Most o us had better count on working. What a person really wants is creativ challenge with sufficient skills to bring them within the reach of succes so that they may have the expanding joy of achievement .... Few peopl overwork; plenty overeat, overworry, overdrink .... Few realise real jo and happiness of conquest. The basis of mental health for the average adul is more work, provided the work is not mere drudgery.
There is only one way to achieve happiness on this terrestrial ball, an that is to have either a clear conscience, or none at all.
I have always know that at last I would take this road but yesterday I did not kno that it would be today.
Progress might have been all right once, but its gone on too long.
It is the mark of a superior person that, left to themselves, they ar able endlessly to amuse, interest and entertain themselves out of thei person stock of meditations, ideas, criticisms, memories, philosophy humour, and what not.
Tell me and I'll forget. Show me, and I may not remember. Involve me and I'll understand.
May I walk happily May it be beautiful before me May it be beautiful behind me May it be beautiful below me May it be beautiful above me May it be beautiful all around me In beauty it is finished.
The thoughts of the earth are my thoughts The voice of the earth is my voice All that belongs to the earth belongs to me All that surrounds the earth surrounds me. it is lovely indeed, it is lovely indeed.
The true spirit of conversation consists in building on anothers observation, not overturning it.
Its good to be open minded but not so open that your brains fall out.
Happiness, after all, is an inner state of mind. It is little dependen on outside environment. Happiness has very little to do, for instance, wit whether you are rich or not rich. Some of the most miserable people I hav come across in my life are the richest. It is true that poverty makes on miserable in a very acute way. But my point is that it is not wealth bu co-ordination of one's thought and action which removes inner conflicts. I is in that way that integration of personality is achieved.
Poverty makes you miserable. If you see people around you that ar not poor and you do not want to be poor, but you believe that you ar basically responsible for the fact that you are still poor, that will mak you miserable!
Life is like a game of cards The hand that is dealt yo represents determinism; th way you play it is free will.
Normally speaking, it may be said that the forces of a capitalis society, if left unchecked, tend to make the rich richer and the poo poorer and thus increase the gap between them.
The policy of being too cautious is the greatest risk of all.
The vast army of children all over the world, outwardly different i many ways, speaking different languages, wearing different kinds of clothe and yet so very like one another. If you bring them together, they play o quarrel but even their quarrelling is some kind of play. They do not thin of differences amongst themselves, differences of class or caste or status They are wiser than their fathers and mothers. As they grow up unfortunately, their natural wisdom is often eclipsed by the teaching an behaviour of their elders. At school they learn many things which are n doubt useful but they gradually forget the essential thing is to be human and kind and playful and to make life richer for ourselves and others.
Any education worthy of the name is bound to be dangerous.
If you have not often felt the joy of doing a kind act, you have neglected much, and most of all yourself.
If you want to know what a person is really like, take notice of how they act when they lose money.
Fear not that thy life shall come to an end, but rather that it shall never have a beginning.
Nothing would be done at all if we waited till we could do it so well that no one could find fault with it.
People are lonely because they build walls instead of bridges.
Its choice  not chance  that determines your destiny.
God give us the grace to accept with serenity the things that cannot b changed; courage to change the things that should be changed; and th wisdom to distinguish the one from the other.
Life has no meaning except in terms of responsibility.
They came for the communists, and I did not speak up because I wasnt a communist. They came for the socialists, and I did not speak up because I was not a socialist. They came for the union leaders, and I did not speak up because I wasnt a union leader. They came for the Jews, and I didnt speak up because I wasnt a Jew. Then they came for me, and there was no one left to speak up for me.
Does wisdom perhaps appear on the earth as a raven which is inspired by the smell of carrion?
Democratic contrivances are quarantine measures against that ancien plague, the lust for power: as such, they are very necessary and ver boring.
Growth in wisdom may be exactly measured by decease in bitterness.
It is our future that lays down the laws of our today.
Many a person fails to become a thinker for the sole reason that their memory is too good.
One is healthy when one can laugh at the earnestness and zeal with whic one has been hypnotised by any single detail of one's life.
Profundity of thought belongs to youth, clarity of thought to old age.
The growth of wisdom may be gauged accurately by the decline of ill temper.
Those who have a 'why' to live can bear with almost any 'how'.
What does not destroy you makes you stronger.
Whenever I climb I am followed by a dog called Ego.
Whoever fights monsters should see to it that in the process they do no become a monster. And when you look long into the abyss the abyss als looks into you.
Wisdom sets bounds even to knowledge.
Success is the progressive realization of a worthy ideal.
Nothing in all the world is left out or remains apart from the hear releasing loving-kindness.
They do not dwell in remorse over the past, nor do they brood over th future: they abide in the present: therefore they are radiant.
Life shrinks or expands in proportion to one's courage
Something is always born of excess: great art was born of great terrors great loneliness, great inhibition, instabilities and it always balance them.
 We dont see things as they are, we see things as we are.
The wise do not rate themselves with the distinguished, nor with th lowest, nor with ordinary people; calm and unselfish, they are free fro possessiveness, they hold on to nothing as theirs and reject nothing as no theirs.
When there is nothing in the world that can trigger agitation, then on is free from the pain of longing.
Wisdom tells me I am nothing Love tells me I am everything And between the two my life flows.
We are all born once. We all die once. That is the end of the equality meted out by this world. Let us not fear this thing. We cannot avoid the fear of painful illness, but we must not fear death itself. It is not only inevitable, but desirable. Eternal life would be appalling. The value of life lies in its brevity. Relish the miracle of life every day. Make the most of it, both of yourselves and for others. If you live as long as I have, and are lucky enough to have as rich a social life as I have had, youll go to may funerals. Dont fear them. Dont fear other peoples death. Hard though it is, dont grieve for your loss, but think of their peace and give thanks for their life which lives on in you. Nothing ends with your death, except unimportant little you. Life is a relay race. Pass the baton.
It is an economic axiom as old as the hills that goods and services ca be paid for only with goods and services.
The civilization of a country consists in the quality of life that i lived there, and this quality shows plainest in the things that peopl choose to talk about when they talk together, and in the way they choose t talk about them.
If children live with criticism, they learn to condemn If children live with hostility, they learn to fight If children live with fear, they learn to be apprehensive If children live with jealousy, they learn to feel guilty If children live with tolerance, they learn to be patient If children live with encouragement, they learn to be confident If children live with praise, they learn to be appreciative If children live with acceptance and friendship, they learn to find love in the world If children live with approval, they learn to like themselves If children live with recognition, they learn it is good to have a goal If children live with honesty, they learn what truth is If children live with fairness, they learn justice If children live with security, they learn to have faith in themselves  and those about them If children live with friendliness, they learn the world is a nice place in which to live.
Love grows as a product of a shared true life experience.
LORD thou knowest better than I know myself that I am growing older an will someday be old. Keep me from the fatal habit of thinking I must sa something on every subject and on every occasion. Release me from cravin to straighten out everybody's affairs. make me thoughtful but not moody helpful but not bossy. With my vast store of wisdom, it seems a pity not t use it all, but Thou knowest Lord that I want a few friends at the end Keep my mind free from the recital of endless details; give me wings to ge to the point. Seal my lips on my aches and pains. They are increasing, an love of rehearsing them is becoming sweeter as the years go by. I dare no ask for grace enough to enjoy the tales of others' pains, but help me t endure them with patience I dare not ask for improved memory, but for a growing humility and  lessing cocksureness when my memory seems to clash with the memories o others. Teach me the glorious lesson that occasionally I may be mistaken Keep me reasonably sweet; I do not want to be a Saint - some of then are s hard to live with -- but a sour old person is one of the crowning works o the devil. Give me the ability to see good things in unexpected places an talents in unexpected people. And, give me, O Lord, the grace to tell the so. AMEN
A day is precious because each day is essentially the microcosm of you whole life. Each new day offers possibilities and promises that were neve seen before. To engage with honour the full possibility of your life is t engage in a worthy way the possibility of your new day. Each day i different.
Time is eternity living dangerously
Simply to be a human being is to be a futurist of sorts. For huma freedom is largely a matter of imaging alternative futures and the choosing among them.
Where I was born and where and how I have lived is unimportant. It i what I have done with where I have been that should be of interest.
We are living in enchanted tim With our spirits righ We can enchant the futur With our love's migh We can give a truer meaning to our past.
Patterns act as templates or simplifications         providing us with clues to the orde     that underlies and stabilises all systems.
My past is my wisdom to use today my future is my wisdom yet to experience. Be in the present because that is where life resides.
.... the world offers itself to your imagination, calls to you lik the wild geese, harsh and exciting - over and over announcing your place i the family of things.
Love is a fluid process, and marriage is inherently ambiguous. As such they both require care and maintenance. When we prefer to believe tha marriage will automatically take care of itself, we may neglect to tend t it. The marriages that last with love alive are made of individuals who ar willing to attend to and appreciate the marriage bond, not rely on it Indeed, rather than being aghast that so many marriages are ending, w might look in awe at how many are surviving or beginning anew.
If women didn't exist, all the money in the world would have n meaning.
The secret of success is to know something nobody else knows.
People's loneliness is but their fear of life.
The only living life is in the past and future ... the present is a interlude ... strange interlude in which we call on past and future to bea witness we are living.
The foolish man seeks happiness in the distance, the wise grows it under his feet.
If you wish your merit to be known, acknowledge that of other people.
There is only one basic human right, the right to do as you pleas unless it causes others harm. With it comes the only basic human duty, th duty to take the consequences.
Worrying is less work than doing something to fix the worry.
Civilization is nothing more than the effort to reduce the use of forc to the last resort.
These days we are witnessing the giant spectacle of innumerable huma lives wandering lost in the labyrinth of their own selves because they hav nothing to which they may devote themselves.
Each generation imagines itself to be more intelligent than the one tha went before it, and wiser than the one that comes after it.
If you want a picture of the future, imagine a boot stamping on a huma face -- for ever.
In our age there is no such thing as 'keeping out of politics'. Al issues are political issues.
Who controls the past controls the future Who controls the present controls the past.
Undertake something that is difficult; it will do you good. Unless yo try to do something beyond what you have already mastered, you will neve grow.
They spend their time mostly looking forward to the past.
Live neither in the past nor in the future, but let each days work absorb your entire energies, and satisfy your widest ambition.
Look wise, say nothing, and grun Speech was given to conceal thought.
The best preparation for tomorrow is to do today's work superbly well.
We are here not to get all we can out of life for ourselves, but to tr to make the lives of others happier.
Throw away all ambition beyond that of doing the days work well. The travellers on the road to success live in the present, heedless of taking thought for the morrow. Live neither in the past nor in the future, but let each days work absorb your entire energies, and satisfy your wildest ambition.
The person who moves, humbly, in the direction of truth comes closer t it than the partisan who claims to have the truth assembled within th framework of some streamlined ideology.
No leaders can command or compel change. Change comes about when followers themselves desire it and seek it. Hence, the role of the leaders is to enlist the participation of others as leaders of the effort. That is the sum and essence not only of leading change but also of good management in general.
Watch your thoughts; they might become words Watch your words; they might become actions Watch your actions; they become habits Watch your habits; they become character Watch your character; they become your destiny.
One of the most important phrases of maturing is that of growth fro self-centering to an understanding relationship to others ... A person i not mature until they have both an ability and a willingness to se themselves as one among others and to do unto those others as they woul have them be done unto.
Recreation is not a secondary concern for a democracy. It is a primar concern, for the kind of recreation a people make for themselves determine the kind of people they become and the kind of society they build.
We can give only what we have to give. We can write out a check for  good cause only if we have money in the bank to cover the check. And i like fashion we can give understanding only if we have understanding. W can give a contagious sense of the heights and depths of life only if w have earned, and have in our possession, a feeling of those heights and depths.
Chance is always powerful. Let your hook be always cast. In the pool where you least expect it, will be a fish.
If you want to be loved, be lovable.
Thou dost thou not know, my son, with how little wisdom the world i governed?
The art of dealing with people is the foremost secret of successfu people. A person's success in handling people is the very yardstick b which the outcome of their whole life's work is measured.
The most important single ingredient in the formula of success i knowing how to get along with people.
The word appreciation means to be thankful and express admiration, approval, or gratitude. It also meqans to grow or appreciate in value. As you appreciate life, you become more valuable  both to yourself and others.
Without beginning or ending, your original wisdom has been shinin forever, like the sun. To know whether or not this is true, look insid your own mind.
The reason people find it so hard to be happy is that they always see the past better than it was, the present worse than it is, and the future less resolved than it will be.
I love the person that can smile in trouble, that can gather strengt from distress, and grow brave by reflection. 'Tis the business of littl minds to shrink, but those whose heart is firm, and whose conscienc approves their conduct, will pursue their principles unto death.
There are two distinct classes of what are called thoughts: those tha we produce in ourselves by reflection and the act of thinking and thos that bolt into the mind of their own accord.
We have it in our power to begin the world over again.
A large part of virtue consists in good habits.
In all things preserve integrity; and the consciousness of thine ow uprightness will alleviate the toil of business.
We are not put here on earth to play around. There is work to be done There are responsibilities to be met. Humanity needs the abilities of ever man and woman.
The harder I practice the luckier I become.
Happiness is a by-product of an effort to make someone else happy.
If we greet situations with a positive attitude, we will eventually create positive returns. If we respond with a negative attitude, negative things will eventually come our way.
 So long as we do not blow our brains out, we have decided life it worth living.
I might repeat to myself slowly and soothingly a list of quotations beautifu from minds profound - if I can remembe any of the damn things.
You can handle people more successfully by enlisting their feelings tha by convincing their reason.
The person who is denied the opportunity of taking decisions o importance begins to regard as important the decisions he is allowed t take.
Work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion. Th thing to be done swells in importance and complexity in a direct ratio with the time to be spent.
I have learned over the years that when one's mind is made up, thi diminishes fear; knowing what must be done does away with fear.
As religious and spiritual people we base our lives on an Ultimat Reality and draw spiritual power and hope therefrom in trust, in prayer o meditation, in word or silence. We have a special responsibility for th welfare of all humanity and care for the planet Earth. We do not conside ourselves better than other women and men, but we trust that the ancien wisdom of our religions can point the way for the future.
The way I see it, if you want the rainbow you gotta put up with the rain.
 Because of Yo Can you say at close of da Before you meet the nigh Of all the troubles in the worl You helped to put one right That just one heart was happie Because your smile was tru One wrinkle in the folds of lif Was smoothed ... because of you.
Harves Some of the seeds we plante May not flourish it is tru But life still has a harves For the aims that we pursue In nature as in lif We plan our way and sow our seed And in God's time and seaso Reap the harvest of our deeds.
Serenit The flowers talk, yet do not need an answer The grasses sigh, and yet they are not sad The leaves are rustling one against the other To tell of all the lovely days we've had There's so much movement that is never restles And so much sound that doe snot interrupt The winds are whistling wisdom in the hedge In tones that are not tiring nor abrupt And that is why the earth contain's such solac Harmonious to hear and cool to touch For nature has so many lovely voices And yet she never seems to talk too much.
Happiness is neither within us only, nor without us; it is the union of ourselves with God.
If you want other people to speak well of you, do not speak well of yourself.
Justice and power must be brought together, so that whatever is just ma be powerful, and whatever is powerful may be just.
Kind words do not cost much. Yet they accomplish much.
Mans greatness lies in his power of thought.
People never do evil so completely and cheerfully as when they do i from a religious conviction.
The sole cause of people's unhappiness is that they do not know how t stay quietly in their room.
The virtue of people ought to be measured, not by their extraordinar exertions, but by their everyday conduct.
To believe in God is harmless even if he does not exist. If God doe exist than to believe is beneficial. But to deny God publicly doesn' contribute to anything whether God exists or not but is down righ dangerous if God happens to exist.
We know the truth, not only by the reason, but by the heart.
Fear of the policeman is the beginning of wisdom.
The cure for boredom is curiosity, there is no cure for curiosity.
In every generation there has to be some fool who will speak the trut as they see it.
People are born to live, not to prepare for life.
The whole human way of life has been destroyed and ruined. All that' left is the bare, shivering human soul, stripped to the last shred, th naked force of the human psyche for which nothing has changed because i was always cold and shivering and reaching out to its nearest neighbour, a cold and lonely itself.
Blessed is those who carry within themselves a god and an ideal and wh obeys it -- an ideal of art of science, or gospel virtues. Therein lie th springs of great thoughts and great actions.
Chance favors the prepared mind.
In the field of observation, chance favours the prepared mind.
Fortune favours the prepared mind.
Let me tell you the secret that has led me to my goal. My strength lie solely in my tenacity.
To know how to wonder and question is the first step of the mind towar discovery.
When you are inspired by some grea purpose, some extraordinary project all your thoughts break their bonds Your mind transcends limitations your consciousness expands in every direction, and you find yourself in a new, grea and wonderful world Dormant forces, faculties and talent become alive, and you discover yoursel to be a greater person by fa than you ever dreamed yourself to be.
That the end of life is not action, but contemplation -- being a distinct from doing -- a certain disposition of mind is, in some shape o other, the principles of all the higher morality.
You only hurt yourself when youre not expanding and growing. Many people cant stand the thought of aging, but its the crystallised thought patterns and inflexible mind-sets that age people before their time. You can break through and challenge your crystallised patterns and mind-sets. Thats what evolution and the expansion of love are really about.
Never tell people how to do things. Tell them what to do and they will surprise you with their ingenuity.
Pain makes people think. Thought make people wise. Wisdom makes life endurable.
Death does not necessarily diminish us, it also deepens our awareness o what it means to be alive.
You must make your mark on this earth and, if you have never done so, i is simply because you neglected to use the powers you have, or hav neglected to develop them.
In research the horizon recedes as we advance, and is no nearer at sixt than it was at twenty. As the power of endurance weakens with age, th urgency of the pursuit grows more intense .... And research is alway incomplete.
Never tell people how to do things. Tell them what to do and they wil surprise you with their ingenuity.
The more sand has escaped from the hour glass of our life, the cleare we should see through it.
War should belong to the tragic past, to history: it should find n place on humanity's agenda for the future.
Many pleasures and palaces though we may roam Be it ever so humble there's no place like home.
The supreme value is not the future but the present. The future is  deceitful time that always says to us, 'Not yet', and thus denies us. Th future is not the time of love: what person truly wants they want now Whoever builds a house for future happiness builds a prison for th present.
Wisdom lies neither in fixity nor in change, but in the dialecti between the two.
Education is a debt due from the present to the future generations.
Think not forever of yourselve nor of your own generation Think of continuing generations .. and of those yet unborn whose faces are coming from beneath the ground.
Anyone can do just about anything with their life that they really wan to and make up their mind to do. We are capable of greater things than w realise. How much one actually achieves depends largely on: 1) Desire; 2 Faith; 3) Persistent Effort; 4) Ability. But if you are lacking the firs three factors, your ability will not balance out the lack. So concentrat on the first three and the results will amaze you.
Change your thoughts and you change your world.
The person who lives for themselves is a failure. Even if they gain muc wealth, position or power they still are a failure. The person who live for others has achieved true success. A rich person who consecrates thei wealth and their position to the good of humanity is a success. A poo person who gives of their service and their sympathy to others has achieve true success even though material prosperity or outward honours never com to them.
To become a happy person, have a clean soul, eyes that see romance in the commonplace, a childs heart, and spiritual simplicity.
We struggle with the complexities and avoid the simplicities.
Misquotation is, in fact, the pride and privilege of the learned.  widely-read person never quotes accurately, for the rather obvious reaso that they have read too widely.
No matter how widely you have travelled, you haven't seen the world i you have failed to look into the human hearts that inhabit it.
If we want to utilize in the proper way and to the fullest extent th products of a person's intellect, we must develop that part of their bein that is their heart and spirit.
It is the essence of genius to make use of the simplest of ideas.
I expect to pass through life but once. If, therefore, there be any kindness I can show, or any good thing I can do to any fellow being, let me do it now, for I shall not pass this way again.
In all debates, let truth be thy Aim not Victory, or an unjust interest And endeavour to gain, rather than to expose, thy Antagonist.
Knowledge is the treasure, but judgment is the treasurer of a wis person.
The wisdom of nations lies in their proverbs, which are brief and pithy. Collect and learn them; they are notable measures of directions for human life; you have much in little; they save time in speaking; and upon occasion may be the fullest and safest answer.
Those that judge not well of the importance of their affairs, thoug they may be always busy, they must make but small progress.
Dont fix the blame, fix the problem.
Our love of what is beautiful does not lead to extravagance; our love o the things of the mind does not make us soft.
We Athenians ... instead of looking on discussion as a stumbling bloc in the way of action, think of it as an indispensable preliminary to an wise action at all.
After you've done a thing the same way for two years, look it ove carefully. After five years, look at it with suspicion. And after ten year throw it away and start all over.
You will die, you are alon             There is no god upon his thron             Impose thy will upon earths mes             Else your life is meaningles             No hell below, no heaven above             Live life now and act with love.
A person can do their best only by confidently seeking (and perpetuall missing) an unattainable perfection.
A wise person seeks wisdom; a madman thinks they have found it.
He who wants a rose must respect the thorn.
One pound of learning requires ten pounds of common sense to apply it.
Thinking well is wise; planning well, wiser; doing well wisest and bes of all.
We come into this world crying while all around us are smiling. May w so live that we go out of this world smiling while everybody around us i weeping.
If we lacked imagination enough to foresee something better, life woul indeed be a tragedy.
Some problems are so complex that you have to be highly intelligent and well-informed just to be undecided about them.
and it is often the case that the more intelligent you are the easier you find it is to be undecided
Celebrate what you want to see more of.
Innovation comes only from readily and seamlessly sharing information rather than hording it.
The art of being yourself at your best is the art of unfolding your personality into the person you want to be. Be gentle with yourself, learn to love yourself, to forgive yourself, for only as we have the right attitude toward ourselves can we have the right attitude toward others.
It was a wise person who said: As I grow older I pay less attention t what people say. I just watch what they do.
Sooner or later, a person, if they are wise, discovers that life is  mixture of good days and bad, victory and defeat, give and take.
If I were asked to sum up in a single phrase the main purpose o individual life I would express it as the enlargement of personality Unless an individual can transcend the limits of class, sex, race, age an creed, their personality remains of necessity to that extent incomplete.
Five great enemies to peace inhabit with us: avarice, ambition, envy anger and pride. If those enemies were to be banished, we should infallibl enjoy perpetual peace.
We tend to meet any new situation by reorganising. And a wonderfu method it can be for creating the illusion of progress while producin inefficiency and demoralisation.
Power and influence are not the organisations last dirty secret but the secret of success for both individuals and their organisations.
The most important leadership quality is a willingness to admit what you dont know or arent certain about, and a willingness to change your mind when confronted with different evidence and ideas. It is a quality of intellectual openness  and it is at the foundation of an attitude of wisdom.
Wisdom, not intelligence is probably the most important talent for sustaining organisational performance.
Youth is not a time of life; it is a state of mind. People grow old onl by deserting their ideals and by outgrowing the consciousness of youth Years wrinkle the skin, but to give up enthusiasm wringles the soul ... Yo are as old as your doubt; your fear; your despair. The way to keep young i to keep your faith young. Keep your self-confidence young. Keep your hop young.
 The man who makes no mistakes does not usually make anything.
Every person in the world may not become a personage. But every perso may become a personality. The happiest people are those who think the mos interesting thoughts. Interesting thoughts can live only in cultivate minds. Those who decide to use leisure as a means of mental development who love good music, good books, good pictures, good plays at the theatre good company, good conversation -- what are they? They are the happies people in the world; and they are not only happy in themselves, they ar the cause of happiness in others.
Real happiness is not dependent on external things. The pond is fed fro within. The kind of happiness that springs from inward thoughts an emotions. You must cultivate your mind if you wish to achieve endurin happiness. You must furnish your mind with interesting thoughts and ideas For an empty mind seeks pleasure as a substitute for happiness.
The belief that youth is the happiest time of life is founded upon  fallacy. The happiest person is the person who thinks the most interestin thoughts, and we grow happier as we grow older.
The older I grow, the more I distrust the familiar doctrine that ag brings wisdom.
The happiest people are those who think the most interesting thoughts. Interesting thoughts can only live in cultivated minds. Those who decide to use leisure as a means of mental development, who love good music, good books, good pictures, good plays at the theatre, good company, good conversation -- what are they? They are the happiest people in the world; and they are not only happy in themselves, they are the cause of happiness in others.
Books, churches, governments, are what we make them.
Government exist to protect the rights of minorities. The loved and th rich need no protection -- they have many friends and few enemies.
Responsibility Educates
What is defeat? Nothing but education, nothing but the first step towar something better.
The goal of wisdom is laughter and play -- not the kind that one sees i little children who do not yet have the faculty of reason, but the kin that is developed in those who have grown mature through both time an understanding. If someone has experienced the wisdom that can only be hear from oneself, learned from oneself, and created from oneself, they do no merely participate in laughter: they become laughter itself.
Computers are useless. They can only give you answers.
Computers do not tell you the questions you should be asking.
Everyone wants to understand painting. Why don't they try to understan the singing of birds? People love the night, a flower, everything tha surrounds them without trying to understand them. But painting -- that the must understand.
I am always doing that which I cannot do, in order that I may learn how to do it.
A person needs self-acceptance or they cant live with themselves; they need self criticism or others cant live with them.
The vast possibilities of our great future will become realities only if we make ourselves responsible for that future.
I believe the future is only the past again, entered through anothe gate.
Those who love deeply never grow old; they may die of old age, but the die young.
Oppression is but another name for irresponsible power, if history is t be trusted.
You too must not count overmuch on your reality as you feel it today since, like that of yesterday, it may prove an illusion for you tomorrow.
What matters today is not the difference between those who believe and those who do not believe, but the difference between those who care and those who dont.
Well arranged time is the surest mark of a well arranged mind.
Unlimited power is apt to corrupt the minds of those who possess it.
The measure of a person is what they do with power.
Science cannot solve the ultimate mystery of nature. And that is because, in the last analysis, we ourselves are part of the mystery that we are trying to solve.
Dying, is an Art, like everything else.
Be kind, for everyone you meet is fighting a harder battle.
But if you ask what is the good of education in general, the answer i easy; that education makes good people, and that good people act nobly.
For I spend all my time going about trying to persuade you, young an old, to make your first and chief concern not for your bodies nor for you possessions, but for the highest welfare of your souls, proclaiming as  go. Wealth does not bring goodness, but goodness brings wealth and ever other blessing, both to the individual and to the state.
Knowledge which is acquired under compulsion has no hold on the mind Therefore do not use compulsion, but let early education be rather a sor of amusement; this will better enable you to find out the natural bent o the child.
Let us persuaded ... to consider that the soul is immortal and capabl of enduring all evil and all good, and so we shall always hold to th upward way and pursue justice with wisdom.
Perfect wisdom hath four parts, viz., wisdom, the principle of doing things alright; justice, the principle of doing things equally in public and private; fortitude, the principle of not flying danger but meeting it; and temperance, the principle of subduing desires and living moderately.
That man is wisest who, like Socrates, has realised that in truth hi wisdom is worth nothing.
The beginning is the most important part of any work.
The cause of all the blunders committed by the human race arise fro excessive self-love. Those who intend to be great ought to love neithe themselves nor their own things, but only what is just, whether it happen to be done by themselves or by another.
The direction in which education starts a person will determine thei future life.
The fear of death is indeed the pretense of wisdom, and not real wisdom, being a pretense of knowing the unknown; and no one knows whether death, which men in their fear apprehend to be the greatest evil, may not be the greatest good.
The human race are beings in search of meaning.
The measure of a person is what they do with power.
The most effective kind of education is that a child should play amongs lovely things.
The noblest of all studies is the study of what man is and of what lif should be.
The punishment which the wise suffer, who refuse to take part in government, is to live under the government of worse people.
There are three classes of people: lovers of wisdom, lovers of honour lovers of gain.
There will be no end to the troubles of states, or indeed, my dea Glaucon, of humanity itself, till philosophers become kings in this world or till those we now call kings and rulers really and truly becom philosophers.
The spiritual eyesight improves as the physical eyesight declines.
The wise person will want to be ever with those who are better than themselves.
The wisest have the most authority.
Those who are of a calm and happy nature will hardly feel the pressur of age, but those who are of an opposite disposition youth and age ar equally a burden.
Until philosophers are kings, or the kings and princes philosophers o this world have the spirit and power of philosophy, and political greatnes and wisdom meet in one, and those commoner natures who pursue either to th exclusion of the other are compelled to stand aside, cities will never hav rest from their evils - no, nor the human race, as I believe - and the only will this our state have a possibility of life and behold the light o day.
We can easily forgive a child who is afraid of the dark, the rea tragedy is when adults are afraid of the light.
Wise people talk because they have something to say; fools, because they have to say something.
Wonder is the feeling of a philosopher; and philosophy begins i wonder.
You can learn more about a person in an hour of play than in a year of conversation.
No Person is wise enough by themselves.
Not by age but by capacity is wisdom acquired.
Practice yourself what you preach.
Be the change you want to see in the world.
The harder you work, the luckier you get.
Man is unique in that he knows nothing. He can learn nothing withou being taught. He can neither speak nor walk nor eat, in fact he can d nothing by natural instinct alone except weep.
The only certainty is that nothing is certain.
True happiness consists in being considered deserving of it.
It is the function of creative men to perceive the relations betwee thoughts, or things, or forms of expression that may seem utterl different, and to be able to combine them into some new forms -- the powe to connect the seemingly unconnected.
From the errors and mistakes, the wise and good learn wisdom for the future.
It is no disgrace not to be able to do everything; but to undertake, o pretend to do, what you are not made for, is not only shameful, bu extremely troublesome and vexatious.
The mind is not a vessel to be filled but a fire to be kindled.
Those who aim at great deeds must also suffer greatly.
To make no mistakes is not in the power of people; but from their error and mistakes the wise and good learn wisdom for the future.
Man's real life is happy, chiefly because he is ever expecting that i soon will be so.
The challenge in life is not to find truths to live by, which ar legion, but to choose among them.
Can you have hope for tomorrow's world without the experience of yesterday's world    Can you be so busy teaching others without having time for learning from others    Can you have real knowledge and also fear of new ideas    Can you really be secure without growth, reform, and change   Can you count the blessings of others and not count your own   Can you be happy with your success without being happy about the success of others   Can you be happy always 'Taking' without ever 'Giving'   Can you say 'why did this sorrow happen to me? -- when you don't say 'why did this joy happen to me?  Can you praise a person for bringing happiness into your life without praising God for his part in    bring that person into your life?
It is the responsibility of leadership to provide opportunity, and the responsibility of individuals to contribute.
We live and learn, but not the wiser grow.
There is nothing quite so complicated as simplicity.
A person should never be ashamed to own up that they have been in th wrong, which is but saying, in other words, that they are wiser to-day tha they were yesterday.
It is our intuition, our mystical insight into the nature of things, rather than our reasoning that makes a great scientist.
We may become the makers of our fate when we have ceased to pose as it prophets.
Happiness is not perfected until it is shared.
Strategy = tradeoffs. Its about making CHOICES.
Live to learn and you will learn to live.
Great literature is simply language charged with meaning to the utmos possible.
Real education must ultimately be limited to one who INSISTS on knowing the rest is mere sheep-herding.
Experts often possess more data than judgement.
Growing old is like being increasingly penalised for a crime you haven' committed.
One of the worst things about life is not how nasty the nasty peopl are. You know that already. It is how nasty the nice people can be.
Parents are sometimes a bit of a disappointment to their children. The don't fulfil the promise of their early years.
Avoid having an ego so close to apposition that when your position falls, your ego goes with it.
Experts often posses more data than judgement.
The only real mistake is the one from which we learn nothing.
Try to forget yourself in the service of others For when we think too much of ourselves and our own interests we easily become despondent But when we work for others, our efforts return to bless us.
It is not others who must change, but you.
Our happiness in this world depends on the affections we are enabled t inspire.
The nicest thing about not planning is that failure comes as a complet surprise, and is not preceded by a period of worry and depression
The world is round and the place which may seem like the end may also b only the beginning.
The future is uncertain ... but this uncertainty is at the very heart o human creativity.
From ignorance our comfort flow The only wretched are the wise.
He is wise who tries everything before arms.
Man is the measure of all things: of things which are, that they are, and of things which are not, that they are not.
Everything we think of as great has come to us from neurotics. It i they and they alone who found religious and create great works of art. Th world will never realise how much it owes to them and what they hav suffered in order to bestow their gifts on it.
The real voyage of discovery consists not of finding new lands but of seeing the territory with new eyes.
We don't receive wisdom; we must discover it for ourselves after a journey that no one can take for us or spare us.
Adversity makes a person wise, not rich.
Contentment is the philosopher's stone, which turns all it toucheth int gold; the poor man is rich with it, the rich man poor without it.
Definition of a proverb: - The wisdom of many and the wit of on - One man's wit and all men's wisdom .
Even a fool, when they holdeth their peace, are counted wise.
Experience is the mother of wisdom
Footprints on the sands of time are not made by sitting down.
He who knows not, and knows not that he knows not, is a fool -- shu him He who knows not, and knows that he knows not, is a child -- teach him He who knows, and knows not that he knows , is asleep -- wake him But he who knows, and knows that he knows, is a wise man -- follow him.
In a multitude of counsellors there is wisdom.
It is not work that kills, but worry.
No person is born wise.
Prevention is better than cure.
The wisest person is one who does not believe they are wise.
Those that walketh with wise people shall be wise; but with a companion of fools shall be destroyed.
What a fool does in the end, the wise man does at the beginning.
Wise people care not for what they cannot have.
Wise people have their mouths in their hearts, fools their hearts in th mouths.
Wise people learn by the mistakes of others, fools by their own.
Learn wisdom through observing the follies of others.
A generous person will prosper; those who refresh others will themselve be refreshed.
A wise person will hear, and will increase learning; and a person o understanding shall attain unto wise counsels.
Boast not thyself of tomorrow; for thou knowest not what a day may brin forth.
Give a person a fish, they'll eat for a day. Teach a person how to fish, they'll eat for a lifetime.
Go to the ant thou sluggard; consider their ways and be wise.
Happy is the person who finds wisdom ... and happy are those who hold it.
If a wise man contendeth with a foolish man, whether he rage or laugh, there is no rest.
In all labour there is profit, but mere talk leads only to poverty.
One man gives freely yet gains even more. Another withholds unduly but comes to poverty.
She (wisdom) is more precious than rubies: and all the things thou canst desire are not to be compared unto her.
Through wisdom a house is built & through understanding it is established.
Where there is no vision, the people perish
Whoso findeth me (wisdom) findeth life
Wisdom is the principal thing; therefore get wisdom and with all thy getting get understanding.
Great men are not always wise.
So teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unt wisdom.
Do not be arrogant because of your knowledge, but confer with the ignorant person as with the learned . Good speech is more hidden than malachite, yet it is found in the possession of woman slaves at the milestones.
Teach them what has been said in the past; then they will set a good example to the children of the magistrates, and judgement and all exactitude shall enter into them. Speak to them, for there is none born wise.
Truth is great and its effectiveness endures.
Anyone can hold the helm when the sea is calm.
From the errors of others, the wise person corrects their own.
Hold on to what is goo even if it is a handful of earth Hold on to what you believ even if it a tree which stands by itself Hold on to what you must d even if it is a long way from her Hold on to lif even when it is easier letting go Hold onto my han even when I have gone away from you.
There is nothing on this earth more fascinating than a human face with something interesting to say, and saying it with knowledge and conviction and warmth.
 . Is anybody happier because you passed their way is really a question we should all remember as we start each day. Sometimes the smallest gesture can brighten someones day.
Never underestimate what a simple gesture can do. It is the little things that you do that make a big dfference in other peoples lives.
 . The wisdom my Mon shared with me: 1. Make each new day count by helping someone or just making someone smile; 2. Dont dwell on lifes troubles, think of the good times. 3. Dont worry about things you cant do anything about.
You cannot expect to attain success if you are not prepared. Life has a habit of giving back rewards in proportion to the effort we expend.
You  show up for work every day .... but showing up does not mean success in your work.
The only way to be absolutely safe is never to try anything for th first time.
It is better either to be silent or to say things of more value tha silence. Sooner throw a pearl at hazard than an idle or useless word; an do not say a little in many words but a great deal in a few.
Learn to be silent Let you quit min listen and absorb.
Wisdom is the medicine of souls.
Wisdom thoroughly learned, will never be forgotten.
Being young is greatly overestimated ... Any failure seems so total Later on you realise you can have another go.
The future will be better tomorrow.
Happy nations have no history. History is the study of mankind' misfortunes.
Learning to learn is to know how to navigate in a forest of facts, idea and theories, a proliferation of constantly changing items of knowledge Learning to learn is to know what to ignore but at the same time no rejecting innovation and research.
Those who spend time regretting the past lose the present and risk the future.
It is the soul of man which first has to be fed.
Don't brood on what's past, but never forget it either.
In most conflicts, the main part of the problem . Consists in getting people to talk and to listen to one another.
A person must first govern themself ere they be fit to govern a family and his family ere they be fit to bear the government of the commonwealth.
Even such is Time, which takes in trust Our youth, our joys, and all we have And pays us but with age and dust.
There is no wisdom without love.
In the name of the best within you, do not sacrifice this world to those who are its worst. In the name of the values that keep you alive, do not let your vision of man be distorted by the ugly, the cowardly, the mindless in those who have never achieved his title. Do not lose your knowledge that man's proper estate is an upright posture, an intransigent mind and a step that travels unlimited roads. Do not let your fire go out, spark by irreplaceable spark, in the hopeless swamps of the approximate the not-quite, the not-yet, the not-at-all. Do not let the hero in our sou perish, in the lonely frustration for the life you deserved, but have never been able to reach. Check your road and the nature of your battle. The world you desired can be won, it exists, it is real, it impossible, it's yours.
Upper classes are a nation's past; the middle-class are its future.
We don't have to be facing a personal tradedy to make our relationship our number one priority. No project, no deadline, no clean kitchen is a important as the quality of our relationships.
Sympathy is never wasted except when you give it to yourself.
Sympathy is too important for the future of the world for us t waste it on ourselves.
The person who wastes to-day lamenting yesterday, will waste to-morro lamenting to-day.
We as a people seem to be losing all sense of respect for ourselves an our fellows, with the result that in a thoroughly intolerant attitude w hesitate not a minute to secure an organized minority, or even a majority to attempt by resolution or law to impose our will on a large body o people in matters where no moral wrong is involved and where liberty i curtailed.
Nature composes some of its loveliest poems for the microscope and th telescope.
An economic system is not only an institutional device for satisfyin existing wants and needs but a way of fashioning wants in the future.
Learning makes the wise wiser and the fool more foolish.
No one grows old by living -- only by losing interest in living.
Sins become more subtle as you grow older. You commit sins of despai rather than lust.
All men cannot be poets or philanthropists; but all men can join in tha gigantic and god-like work the progress of creation. Whoever improves thei own nature improves the universe of which they are a part.
People can never rise from low estate as long as the engrossed in th painful struggle for daily bread. On the other hand leisure alone is no sufficient to effect their self-promotion.
The history of morals is the extension of the reciprocal or selfis virtues from the clan to the tribe, from the tribe to the nation, from th nation to all communities living under the same government, civil o religious, then people of the same colour, and finally to all mankind.
The future doesnt belong to the fainthearted, it belongs to the brave.
Government exists to protect us from each other. Where Government ha gone beyond its limits is in deciding to protect us from ourselves.
Do unto others as you would wish them do unto you.
In order to succeed, you have to live dangerously ... as long as the danger is rationally accepted and as long as the rewards far outweigh the risk.
Success is not built on success. Its built on failure. Its built on frustration. Sometimes its built on catastrophe.
Since every failure is a lesson, every challenge an opportunity and every joy a triumph, its hard to go wrong.
Art is ... pattern informed by sensibility.
A hero is an ordinary individual who finds the strength to persevere and endure in spite of overwhelming obstacles.
All leaders must face some crisis where their own strength of character is the enemy.
If companies have a moral responsibility not to fill the movie theatr and airwaves with violence and moral degradation, do they not also have  responsibility to keep workers employed when profits are rising? A mora responsibility to upgrade worker skills, an obligation to fully fun pension plans, to provide health care The CEO's are remarkably quiet. We are acting as if the economy had nothin to do with values. We need a serious national discussion about corporat responsibility.
As I grow to understand life less and less, I learn to love it more an more.
Failure is not our only punishment for laziness: there is also th success of others.
A person who listens because they have nothing to say can hardly be  source of inspiration. The only listening that counts is that of the talke who alternatively absorbs and expresses ideas.
We cannot really love anybody with whom we never laugh.
Do more than exist, live Do more than touch, feel Do more than look, observe Do more than read, absorb Do more than hear, listen Do more than listen, understand Do more than think, ponder Do more than talk, say something.
Not the state of the body but the state of the mind and soul is th measure of the wellbeing of each of us.
Wisdom and compassion should become the dominating influences that guide our thoughts, our words, and our actions.
Every journey into the past is complicated by delusions, false memories.
If you dont learn from your mistakes youre doomed to repeat them.
Do not wait for extraordinary circumstances to do good; try to us ordinary circumstances.
How narrow our souls become when absorbed in any present good or ill; i is only the thought of the future that makes them great.
The conscience of children is formed by the influences that surroun them; their notions of good and evil are the result of the moral atmospher they breathe.
There is nothing more beautiful than cheerfulness in an old face.
The words that the parent spoke to their children in the privacy of hom are not heard by the world, but, as in whispering galleries, they ar clearly heard at the end, and by posterity.
If you dont learn from your mistakes youre doomed to repeat them.
Courage is doing what you're afraid to do. There can be no courag unless you're scared.
The sorrow of knowing that there is evil in the best is far out-balance by the joy of discovering that there is good in the worst.
Be patient with all that is unresolved in your hear And try to love the questions themselve Do not seek for the answers that cannot be give For you would not be able to live the And the point is to live everythin Live the questions no And perhaps without knowing i You will live along some da Into the answers.
We live in illusion and the appearance of things There is a reality We are that reality When you understand this, you see that you are nothing And being nothing, you are everything That is all.
Death is neither depressing not exciting: it is simply a fact of life
To say that the truth is simple does not mean that it is easy o simplistic.
The happy people of this world are never free. It is only youth whic really wants freedom, or those who have set up a defensive mechanis against life, since to live is also to suffer .... Surely to be happy i better than to be free; and to be kind to all, to like many and love a few to be needed and wanted by those we love, is certainly the nearest we ca come to happiness.
Freedom without obligation is anarchy; freedom with obligation i democracy.
I discovered a long time ago that if I helped people get what they wanted, I would always get what I wanted and I would never have to worry.
Live life fully while youre here. Experience everything. Take care of yourself and your friends. Have fun, be crazy, be weird. Go out and screw up! Youre going to anyway, so you might as well enjoy the process. Take the opportunity to learn from your mistakes: find the cause of your problem and eliminate it. Dont try to be perfect; just be an excellent example of being human
There is no greatness without passion to be great, whether its the aspiration of an athete or an artist, a scientist, a parent, or a businessperson.
To find joy in your work is the greatest thing for a human being.
 'Tis easy enough to be pleasan When life goes by with a son But the one worthwhil Is the one that can smil When everything goes dead wrong.
If we give everyone we come in contact with the freedom to choose a outcome while encouraging them to be aware of their responsibilities, the they will learn to make better choices, and if we earn trust and accept ou responsibilities, then we take a giant step toward creating successfu relationships.
We now know that happiness is no longer something you find: it is something you achieve.
We waste time looking for the perfect lover, instead of creating the perfect love
Nothing is so difficult as to achieve results in this world if one i full of great tolerance and the milk of human kindness.
Never does a person know the force that is in them till some might affection or grief has humanized the soul.
Two kinds of gratitude: The sudden kind we feel for what we take; th larger kind we feel for what we give.
If He has given us one marvellous gift, it is that He does not permit us to know the future. It would be unbearable.
Nobody can go back and start a new beginning, but anyone can start today and make a new ending.
Some people think its holding on that makes one strong; sometimes its letting go.
God is in the details.
Few things are needful to make the wise person happy, but nothin satisfies the fool; - and this is the reason why so many people ar miserable.
Happiness is dependent on the taste and not on things. It is by havin what we like that we are made happy, not by having what others thin desirable.
If we had no faults we should not take so much pleasure in noticing the in others.
It is a great ability to be able to conceal one's ability.
It is more easy to be wise for others than for ourselves.
It is not enough to have great qualities; we must also have the anagement of them.
No occurrences are so unfortunate that the shrewd cannot turn them t some advantage, nor so fortunate that the imprudent cannot turn them t their own disadvantage.
The art of using moderate abilities to advantage often brings greate results than actual brilliance.
The glory of great individuals must always be measured by the means the have used to obtain it.
The reason why so few people are agreeable in conversation is that eac is thinking more about what they intend to say than about what others ar saying and we never listen when we are eager to speak.
The trust that we put in ourselves makes us feel trust in others.
Those who are without folly are not wise as they think.
We are so accustomed to disguise ourselves to others that in the end we become disguised to ourselves.
We should often be ashamed of our very best actions, if the world only aw the motives which caused them.
Who lives without folly is not so wise as he thinks.
Wisdom is to the mind what health is to the body.
Feeding the mind on wisdom leads to a healthy mind, just as eating th right food helps to produce a healthy body.
Everyone likes to think that they have done reasonably well in life, s that it comes as a shock to find our children believing differently. Th temptation is to tune them out; it takes much more courage to listen.
Good leadership consists of showing average people how to do the work of superior people.
 ... I believe that every right implies a responsibility; ever opportunity, an obligation; every possession a duty .. I believe that love is the greatest thing in the world; that it alone ca overcome hate; that right can and will triumph over might.
If your only goal is to become rich, you will never achieve it.
The road to happiness lies in two simple principles: find out what it i that interests you and that you can do well, and when you find it put you whole soul into it -- every bit of energy and ambition and natural abilit you have.
It is essential that we enable young people to see themselves a participants in one of the most exciting eras in history, and to have  sense of purpose in relation to it.
I think that business practices would improve immeasurably if they wer guided by 'feminine' principles -- qualities like love, and care an intuition.
My wish for the future would be a revolution in kindness; no mor armaments, economists helping people out of poverty, big business workin with rather than against the environment, and an all-round appreciation o the poetry of life.
Nothing is a waste of time if you use the experience wisely.
Most people think the future is the ends and the present is the means In fact, the present is the ends and the future the means.
If you're not playin a big enough game you'll screw u the game you're playin just to give yoursel something to do.
Nothing would be done at all if people waited until they could so it so well that no one could find fault with it.
Useful knowledge is a great support for intuition.
We're drowning in information and starving for knowledge.
 Half our life is spent trying to find something to do with the time w have rushed through life trying to save.
People only learn in two ways, one by reading, and the other by association with smarter people.
Let others lead small lives, but not you. Let others argue over small things, but not you. Let others cry over small hurts, not you. Let others leave their future in someone elses hands, but not you.
Motivation is what gets you started. Habit is what keeps you going.
You dont get paid for the hour. You get paid for the value you bring to the hour.
No one is so old that they cannot live yet another year, nor so young that he cannot die today.
It is better to light a candle than to curse the darkness.
It is not fair to ask of others what you are not willing to d yourself.
Learn from the mistakes of others. You can't live long enough to mak them all yourself.
Life has to be lived, that's all there is to it.
Ones philosophy is not best expressed in words; it is expressed in the choices one makes  and the choices we make are ultimately our responsibility.
Remember no one can make you feel inferior without your consent.
The future belongs to those who believe in the beauty of their dreams.
When you cease to make in contribution, you begin to die.
You gain strength, courage and confidence by every experience in whic you really stop to look fear in the face. You are able to say to yourself 'I lived through this horror. I can take the next thing that comes alone.' ... You must do the thing you think you cannot do.
First of all, let me assert my firm belief that the only thing we hav to fear is fear itself --- nameless, unreasoning, unjustified terror whic paralyses needed efforts to convert retreat into advance.
Happiness lies not in the mere possession of money; it lies in the jo of achievement, in the thrill of creative effort. The joy and mora stimulation of work no longer must be forgotten in the mad chase o evanescent profits.
If civilization is to survive, we must cultivate the science of human relationships  the ability of all peoples, of all kinds, to live together, in the same world at peace.
The only limit to our realization of tomorrow will be our doubts o today. Let us move forward with strong and active faith.
We have the men -- the skill -- the wealth -- and above all, the wil ... We must be the greatest arsenal of democracy.
We look forward to a world founded upon four essential human freedoms The first is freedom of speech and expression -- everywhere in the world The second is freedom of every person to worship God in their own wa everywhere in the world. The third freedom from want .... everywhere in th world. The fourth is freedom from fear .... everywhere in the world.
Extend pity to no one because they have to work. If they are worth thei salt, they will work. I envy the person who has work worth doing and doe it well. There never has been devised, and there never will be devised, an law which will enable a person to succeed save by the exercise of thos qualities which have always been the prerequisites of success, th qualities of hard work, of keen intelligence, of unflinching will.
Far and away the best prize that life offers is the chance to work hard at work worth doing.
If we are to be really great people, we must strive in good faith to play a great part in the world. We cannot avoid meeting great issues. All that we can determine for ourselves is whether we shall meet them well or ill.
Keep your eyes on the stars, and your feet on the ground.
Nine-tenths of wisdom is being wise in time.
Timing is everything
No person is worth their salt who is not ready at all times to ris their body, to risk their well-being, to risk their life, in a grea cause.
No prosperity and glory can save a nation that is rotten at heart.
Our chief usefulness to humanity rests on our combining power with high purpose. Power undirected by high purpose spells calamity, and high purpose by itself is utterly useless if the power to put it into effect is lacking.
The men with the muck-rake are often indispensable to the well-being o society, but only if they know when to stop raking the muck.
The most important single ingredient in the formula of success is knowing how to get along with people.
The only person who never makes a mistake is the person who never doe anything.
Mistakes are part of the dues one pays for a full life.
This country will not be a good place for any of us to live in unless w make it a good place for all of us to live in.
Seek above all for a game worth playing. Play as if your life and sanit depend on it, because they do.
All the pleasures of life seem to wear out, but the pleasure of helpin others in distress never does.
Children truly are our greatest gift as well as our greatest teachers They ask that we be loving, calm, caring, attentive, trusting, playful honest, and mature ... It has been said that adults do not create childre but rather children create adults.
The world is moved not only by the mighty shoves of the heroes, but als by the aggregate of the tiny pushes of each honest worker.
Nature composes some of its loveliest poems for the microscope an telescope.
The successful person is one who is able to take their talents an invest them in the business of living in a manner that leads to the accomplishment of a full life of service.
Everything is good when it leaves the Creator's hands; everythin degenerates in the hands of people.
As soon as public service ceases to be the chief business of th citizens, and they would rather serve with their money than with thei persons, the state is not far from its fall.
Education begins at birth; before they can speak or hear, they ar already learning.
Great people never make bad use of their superiority, they see it an feel it, and are not less modest. The more they have, the more they kno their own deficiencies.
I hate books; they only teach us to talk about things we know nothing about.
People were born free, and everywhere they are in shackles.
Supreme happiness consists in self-content; that we may gain this self-content we are placed upon this earth and endowed with freedom, we are tempted by our passions and restrained by conscience. What more could divine power itself have done in our behalf?
The strongest is never strong enough to be always the master unless they transform strength into right and obedience into duty.
 To live is not merely to breathe, it is to act; it is to make use of our organs, senses, faculties, of all those parts of ourselves which give us the feeling of existence. The person who has lived longest is not the person who had counted most years, but those who have enjoyed life most.
What wisdom can you find that is greater than kindness.
You can fight against everything except kindness.
Let the civilise world go to the devil. 'Long live nature, forests and ancient poetry.'
Science is for those who learn; poetry for those who know.
Science provides us with more sophisticated information, poetry helps give us wisdom so we can turn that information into useful knowledge.
The follies which a person regrets most, in their life, are those whic they didn't commit when they had the opportunity.
Kindness is more important than wisdom, and the recognition of this i the beginning of wisdom.
I accept life unconditionally  Most people ask for happiness on condition. Happinesss can only be felt if you don't set any condition.
Moderation is the key to happiness.
Sometimes it takes years to really grasp what has happened to you life.
What you will see i      love coming out of the trees      love coming out of the sky      love coming out of the light      You will perceive love from everythin      Around you. This is the state of bliss.
Let the beauty of what you love be what you do.
The Guest Hous This being human is a guest hous Every morning a new arrival A joy, a depression, a meanness some momentary awareness come as an unexpected visitor Welcome and entertain them all Even if they're a crowd of sorrows who violently sweep your hous empty of its furniture still treat each guest honourably He may be clearing you ou for some new delight The dark thought, the shame the malice meet them at the door laughin and invite them in Be grateful for whoever comes because each has been sen as a guide from beyond.
I would not say that the future is necessarily less predictable than the past. I think the past was not predictable when it started.
Happiness is not a station you arrive at, but a manner of travelling.
If tomorrow were never to come it would not be worth living today.
Work is man's most natural form of relaxation.
Some are unable to do anything but some things are impossible to do.
To understand a single life, you have to swallow the world.
What is freedom of expression? Without the freedom to offend, it cease to exist.
One of the best ways to persuade others is with your ears -- b listening to them.
A little thought and a little kindness are often worth more than a great deal of money.
All real and wholesome enjoyments possible to man have been just as possible to him since he was made of the earth as they are now; and they are possible to him chiefly in peace. To watch the corn grow, and the blossoms set; to draw hard breath over plowshare or spade; to read, to think, to love, to hope, to pray -- these are the things that make men happy.
All the best things and treasures of this world are not to be produce by each generation for itself, but we are all intended, not to carve ou work in snow that will melt, but each and all of us to be continuall rolling a great white gathering snowball, higher and higher, larger an larger, along the Alps of human power.
Consider what heavy responsibility lies upon you in your youth, t determine, among realities, by what you will be delighted, and amon imaginations, by whose you will be led.
Education does not mean teaching people what they do not know. It mean teaching them to behave as they do not behave. It is not teaching the yout the shapes of letters and the tricks of numbers, and then leaving them t turn their arithmetic to roguery, and their literature to lust. It means on the contrary, training them into the perfect exercise and kingl continence of their bodies and souls. It is painful, continual an difficult work, to be done by kindness, by watching, by warming, by precep and by praise, but above all - by example.
Education is leading human souls to what is best, and making what i best out of them; and these two objects are always attainable together, an by the same means; the training which makes people happiest in themselve also makes them most serviceable to others.
Every great person is always being helped by everybody; for their gift is to get good out of all things and all persons.
I believe that the first test of a truly great person is their humility. I do not mean by humility , doubt of their own powers. But really great people have curious feeling that the greatness is not in them, but through them. And they see something divine in every person.
In order that people may be happy in their work, these three things are needed: They must be fit for it. They must not do too much of it. And they must have a sense of success in it.
It is not how much one makes but to what purpose one spends.
Remember that the most beautiful things in the world are the mos useless; peacocks and lilies for instance.
The entire object of true education is to make people not merely do th right thing, but enjoy the right things; not merely be industrious, but t love industry; not merely be learned, but to love knowledge; not merely be pure but to love purity; not merely be just, but to hunger and thirst afte justice.
The highest reward for a person's toil is not what they get for it, but what they become by it
There is no wealth but life. Life, including all its powers of love, o joy and of admiration. That country is richest which nourishes the greates number of noble and happy human beings.
The virtue of the imagination is its reaching, by intuition an intensity, a more essential truth than is seen at the surface of things.
When a person is wrapped up in themself they make a pretty smal package.
When love and skill work together, expect a masterpiece.
When we build ... let it not be for present delights nor for present use alone. Let it be such work as our descendants will thank us for, and let us think ... that a time is to come when these stones will be held sacred because our hands have touched them, and that men will say as they look upon the labour, and the wrought substance of them. See! This our fathers did for us!
Boredom is ... a vital problem for the moralist, since half the sins of mankind are caused by the fear of it.
Change is one thing, progress is another. 'Change' is scientific, 'progress' is ethical; change is indubitable, whereas progress is a matter of controversy.
Do not fear to be eccentric in opinion, for every opinion now accepted was once eccentric.
Envy is the basis of democracy.
Fear is the main source of superstition, and one of the main sources o cruelty. To conquer fear is the beginning of wisdom, in the pursuit o truth as in the endeavour after a worthy manner of life.
How far is the pursuit of knowledge mainly actuated by love of power.
Into every tidy scheme for arranging the pattern of human life, it i necessary to inject a certain dose of anarchism.
It has been said that man is a rational animal. All my life I have been searching for evidence which could support this.
It is because modern education is so seldom inspired by a great hope that it so seldom achieves great results. The wish to preserve the past rather than the hope of creating the future dominates the minds of those who control the teaching of the young.
It is good to have an open mind, but not so open that your brains fal out.
It is only in marriage with the world that our ideals can bear fruit divorced from it, they remain barren.
It is preoccupation with possession more than anything else, tha prevents people from living freely and nobly.
Love cannot exist as a duty; to tell a child that it ought to love it parents and its brother and sisters is utterly useless, if not worse.
Man is a credulous animal, and must believe something; in the absence o good grounds for belief, he will be satisfied with bad ones.
Men are born ignorant, not stupid. They are made stupid by education.
Most people would rather die than think; in fact, they do so.
One of the symptoms of an approaching nervous breakdown is the belief that ones work is terribly important.
One must care about a world one will not see.
Rules of conduct, whatever they may be, are not sufficient to produc good results unless the ends sought are good.
The central problem of our age is how to act decisively in the absenc of certainty.
The more we realise our minuteness and our impotence in the face o cosmic forces, the more astonishing becomes what human beings hav achieved.
The trouble with the world is that the stupid are cocksure and th intelligent are full of doubt.
The whole problem with the world is that fools and fanatics are always so certain of themselves, but wiser people so full of doubts.
Three passions, simple but overwhelmingly strong, have governed my life the longing for love, the search for knowledge and unbearable pity for th suffering of mankind.
To be able to use leisure intelligently is the last product of  civilization.
To be able to fill leisure intelligently is the last product o civilization.
To be happy in this world, especially when youth is past, it is necessary to feel oneself not merely an isolated individual whose day will soon be over, but part of the stream of life flowing on from the first germ to the remote and unknown future.
To conquer fear is the beginning of Wisdom
The hardest thing in life to learn is which bridge to cross and which to burn.
We do not want our world to perish. But in our quest for knowledge, century by century, we have placed all our trust in a cold, impartial intellect which only brings us nearer to destruction. We have heeded no wisdom offering guidance. Only by learning to love one another can our world be saved. Only love can conquer all.
We want far better reasons for having children than not knowing how t prevent them.
A proverb is the wisdom of many and the wit of one.
A kind word is like a spring day.
Happiness is not a horse; you cannot harness it.
The future belongs to those who know how to wait.
When you look at the world in a narrow way, how narrow it seems! Whe you look at it in a mean way how mean it is! When you look at it selfishly how selfish it is! But when you look at it in a broad, generous, friendl spirit, what wonderful people you find in it.
Altruism declares that any action taken for the benefit of others i good, and any action taken for one's own benefit is evil. Thus th beneficiary of an action is the only criterion of moral value -- and s long as that beneficiary is anybody other than oneself, anything goes.
Doubt is the key to knowledge.
Those who learn the rules of wisdom, without conforming to them in their life, are like people who labor in their fields, but did not sow.
Power without education is deplorable and education without power is in vain.
Accommodation to change and the thoughtful pursuit of alternativ futures are keys to the survival of civilization.
Grown-ups never understand anything for themselves, and it is tiresom for children to be always and forever explaining things to them.
There is no hope of joy except in human relations.
The mark of the immature person is that they want to die nobly for  cause, while the mark of the mature person is that they want to live humbl for one.
Our greatest responsibility is to be good ancestors.
To be truly happy in this world is a revolutionary act because tru happiness depends upon a revolution in ourselves. It is a radical change o view that liberates us so that we know who we are most deeply and ca acknowledge our enormous ability to love.
 I believe that peace begins in your mind, in your heart, and lives all around you. Remember, peace is on your lips an in your hands.
One is happy as a result of one's own efforts, once one knows th necessary ingredients of happiness - simple tastes, a certain degree o courage, self-denial to a point, love of work, and above all a clea conscience. Happiness is no vague dream, of that I now feel certain.
 .one changes from day to day . every few years one becomes a new being
I am an idealist. I don't know where I'm going but I'm on the way.
Long after people forget what you said, theyll remember how you made them feel.
It isn't the thing you do It's the thing you leave undone Which gives you a bit of heartach At the setting of the sun The tender word forgotten The letter you did not write The flower you might have sen Are your haunting ghosts at night.
Each religion, by the help of more or less myth which it takes more o less seriously, proposes some method of fortifying the human soul an enabling it to make its peace with its destiny.
Every person in the world is better than someone else. And not as goo as some one else.
Happiness is the only sanction of life; where happiness fails, existenc remains a mad and lamentable experiment.
Knowledge of what is possible is the beginning of happiness.
 O World, thou choosest not the better part    It is not wisdom to be only wise    And on the inward vision close the eyes   But it is wisdom to believe the heart.
Progress, far from consisting in change, depends on retentiveness. Thos who cannot remember the past are content to repeat it.
The greatest happiness you can have is knowing that you do not necessarily require happiness.
The problem is how to get experience out of education.
The Universe, so far as we can observe it, is a wonderful and immens engine; its extent, its order, its beauty, its cruelty, make it alik impressive. If we dramatise its life and conceive its spirit, we are fille with wonder, terror and amusement, so magnificent is that spirit, s prolific, inexorable, grammatical and dull.
The wisest mind has something yet to learn.
We must welcome the future, remembering that soon it will be the past and we must respect the past, knowing that once it was all that was humanl possible.
Good people are good because theyve come to wisdom through failure. We get very little wisdom from success, you know.
The greatest happiness you can have is knowing that you do not necessarily require happiness.
If you have a finite point and it has no infinite reference point, the that finite point is absurd
The more sand that has flowed through the sand glass of life the cleare should our view of what is beyond it become.
We only become what we are by the radical and deep-seeded refusal o that which others have made of us.
The only place where success comes before work is in the dictionary.
We trained hard, but it seemed every time we were beginning to form  team we would be reorganised ... we tend to meet every situation b reorganising, and a wonderful method it can be from creating the illusio of progress, while producing confusion, inefficiency and demoralisation.
All organisms with complex nervous systems are faced with th moment-by-moment question that is posed by life: What shall I do next?
To acquire knowledge, one must study; but to acquire wisdom, one must observe.
Of all the forces that make for a better world, none is s indispensable, none so powerful, as hope. Without hope people are only hal alive. With hope they dream and think and work.
Keep true to the dreams of thy youth.
The world's history is constant, like the laws of nature, and simple like the souls of men. The same conditions continually produce the sam results.
We learn by thinking and the quality of the learning outcome i determined by the quality of our thoughts.
To be practical in life means to take everything seriously and nothin tragically.
Every person takes the limits of their own field of vision for th limits of the world.
If children were brought into the world by an act of pure reason alone would the human race continue to exists? Would not the potential parent have so much sympathy with the coming generation as to spare it the burde of existence, or at any rate not to take it upon themselves to impose tha burden upon it in cold blood.
Talent hits a target no one else can hit. Genius hits a target no one else can see.
The more a person finds their source of pleasure in themselves, the happier they will be  The highest, most varied and lasting pleasures are those of the mind.
Thus the task is not so much to see what no one yet has seen, but t think what nobody yet has thought about that which everybody sees.
You have to respect everyone, no matter how miserable or ridiculous he or she may be. You should remember that in every person lives the same spirit which lives in us.
I think knowledge management is a bullshit issue. Let me tell you why. I can give you perfect information. I can give you perfect knowledge and it wont change your behaviour one iota. People choose not to change their behaviour because the culture and the imperatives of the organization make it too difficult to act upon the knowledge. Knowledge is not power. Power is power. The ability to act on knowledge is power. Power is power. Most people in most organisations do not have the ability to act on the knowledge they possess. End of story.
The image of the world around us that science provides is highl deficient. It supplies a lot of factual information, and puts all ou experience in magnificently coherent order, but keeps terribly silent abou everything close to our hearts, everything that really counts for us.
The more obligations we accept that are self-imposed, the freer we are.
An energetic middle life is, I think, the only safe precursor of  vitally happy old age.
Again and again, the impossible decision is solved when we see that the problem is only a tough decision waiting to be taken.
Someone once said to me, 'Reverend Schuller, I hope you live to see al your dreams fulfilled,' I replied, 'I hope not, because if I live and al my dreams are fulfilled, I'm dead. It's unfulfilled dreams that keep yo alive.'
Just remember once you're over the hill you begin to pick up speed.
My life has no purpose, no direction, no aim, no meaning, and yet I' happy. I can't figure it out. What am I doing right?
Ideas are like stars; you will not succeed in touching them with your hands, but like the seafaring man on the desert of waters, you choose them as your guides, and following them, you reach your destiny.
This life is yours. Take the power to choose what you want to do and do it well. Take the power to love what you want in life and love it honestly. Take the power to walk in the forest and be a part of nature. Take the power to control your own life. No one else can do it for you. Take the power to make your life happy.
Capitalism, while economically stable and even gaining in stability creates by rationalising the human mind, a mentality and a style of lif incompatible with its own fundamental conditions, motives and socia institutions.
My country, right or wrong; if right, to be kept right; and if wrong t be set right.
A person can succeed at almost anything for which they have unlimite enthusiasm.
I have yet to find a person, however exalted their station, who did no do better work and put forth greater effort under a spirit of approval tha under a spirit of criticism.
When a person has put a limit on what they will do, they have put a limit on what they can do.
Leadership is a potent combination of strategy and character. But if you must be without one, be without the strategy.
Constant kindness can accomplish much. As the sun makes ice melt, kindness causes misunderstanding, mistrust and hostility to evaporate.
Do something for somebody everyday for which you do not get paid.
Example is not the main thing in influencing others; it is the only thing.
Setting an example is not the main means of influencing another, it is the only means.
I don't know what your destiny will be, but one thing I do know: th only ones among you who will be really happy are those who will have sough and found how to serve.
One truth stands firm. All that happens in world history rests o something spiritual. If the spiritual is strong, it creates world history If it is weak, it suffers world history.
Reverence for life does not allow the scholar to live for their scienc alone, even if they are very useful to the community in so doing. Reverenc for life does not permit the artist to exist only for their art, even i they give inspiration to many by its means. Reverence for life refuses t let the businessperson imagine that they fulfill all legitimate demands i the course of their business activities. Reverence for life demands for al that they should sacrifice a portion of their own lives for others.
The future of civilization depends on our overcoming the meaninglessnes and hopelessness which characterizes the thought of people today.
The purpose of human life is to serve and to show compassion and th will to help others.
There is no higher religion than human service. To work for th common good is the greatest creed.
Thought and analysis are powerless to pierce the great mystery tha hovers over the world and over our existence, but knowledge of the grea truths only appears in action and labour.
Until we extend the circle of our compassion to all living things, we will not ourselves find peace.
 We all live spiritually by what others have given us in the significant hours of our life. These significant hours never announce they are coming. They arrive unexpectedly. If we had before us those who have been a blessing to us and could tell them how it came about, they would be amazed to learn what passed over from their lives into ours.
Whatever you have received more than others -- in health, in talents, i ability, in success, in a pleasant childhood, in harmonious conditions o home life -- all this you must not take to yourself as a matter of course In gratitude for your good fortune, you must render in return som sacrifice of your own life for another life.
Every right has its responsibilities. Like the right itself, thes responsibilities stem from no man-made law, but from the very nature of th human race and society. The security, progress and welfare of one group i measured finally in the security, progress and welfare of the human race a a whole.
Integrity is not a 90% thing, not a 95% thing; either you have it or yo don't.
Wisdom is counsel about how life should be lived.
The test of a first rate intelligence is the ability to hold two opposed ideas in the mind at the same time, and still retain the ability to function. One should, for example, be able to see that things are hopeless and yet be determined to make them otherwise.
What we must decide is perhaps how we are valuable, rather than how valuable we are.
The critical responsibility for the generation you're in is, to hel provide the shoulders, the direction, and the support for those generation who come behind.
We have a society based on having and owning; we need a society based around being and giving.
All human interactions are opportunities either to learn or to teach.
As soon as we think with integrity we will realise that we are al properly stewards and that we cannot with integrity deny our responsibilit for stewardship of every part of the whole.
By attempting to avoid the responsibility for our own behaviour, we ar giving away our power to some other individual or organization. In thi way, millions daily attempt to escape from freedom.
By their openness, people dedicated to the truth live in the open, an through the exercise of their courage to live in the open, they become fre from fear.
Genuine love implies commitment and the exercise of wisdom.
Going into the unknown is invariably frightening, but we learn what i significantly new only through adventures.
In and through community lies the salvation of the world.
If we overcome laziness, all the other impediments to spiritual growt will be overcome. If we do not, none of the others will be hurdled.
It is not so much what our parents say that determines our world view a it is the unique world they create for us by their behaviour.
Learning from their children is the best opportunity most people have t assure themselves of meaningful old age.
Life is difficult. This is a great truth, one of the greatest truths. It is a great truth because once we truly see this truth, we transcend it. Once we truly know that life is difficult  once we truly understand and accept it  then life is no longer difficult. Because once it is accepted, the fact that life is difficult no longer matters.
Most of us believe that the freedom and power of adulthood is our due but we have little taste for adult responsibility and self-discipline.
Once we truely know that life is difficult -- once we truely understan and accept it -- then life is no longer difficult. Because once it i accepted, it no longer matters.
Problems are the cutting edge that distinguishes between success an failure. Problems call for the our courage and our wisdom; indeed, the create our courage and our wisdom.
Problems call forth our courage and our wisdom indeed they create our courage and our wisdom It is only because of problem that we grow mentally and spiritually.
Simply seek happiness, and you are not likely to find it. Seek to creat and love without regard to your happiness, and you will likely be happ much of the time.
The act of loving is an act of self-evolution even when the purpose o the act is someone else's growth.
The degree to which we can develop world community and thereby save ou skins is going to depend primarily on the degree to which we human being can learn to empty ourselves.
The entirety of one's adult life is a series of personal choices decisions. If we can accept this totally, then we become free people. T the extent that we do not accept this we will forever feel ourselve victims.
The feeling of being valuable is a cornerstone of self-discipline becaus when you consider yourself valuable you will take care of yourself - including things like using your time well. In this way, self-discipline i self-caring.
The life of wisdom must be a life of contemplation combined wit action.
The only real security in life lies in relishing life's insecurity.
There can be no vulnerability without risk; and there can be n community without vulnerability; and there can be no peace -- ultimately n life -- without community.
There is a force that somehow pushes us to choose the more difficul path whereby we can transcend the mire and muck into which we are so ofte born. Despite all that resists the process, we do become better huma beings.
To be organized and efficiently, to live wisely, we must daily dela gratification and keep an eye on the future; yet to live joyously we mus also possess the capacity, when it is not destructive, to live in th present and act spontaneously.
When we cling, often forever, to our old patterns of thinking an behaving, we fall to negotiate any crisis, to truly grow up, and t experience the joyful sense of rebirth that accompanies the successfu transition into greater maturity.
The time and the quality of the time that their parents devote to the indicate to children the degree to which they are valued by their parents.
To be free people we must assume total responsibility for ourselves, bu in doing so we must possess the capacity to reject responsibility that i not truly ours.
We must be willing to fail and to appreciate the truth that often life is not a problem to be solved, but a mystery to be lived.
Whenever we seek to avoid the responsibility for our own behaviour, we do so by attempting to give that responsibility to some other individual or organization or entity. But this means we then give away our power to that entity.
Wise people learn not to dread but actually to welcome problems becaus it is in this whole process of meeting and solving problems that life ha its meaning.
Oh what a tangled web we weav When first we practise to deceive!
The race of mankind would perish did they cease to aid each other. We cannot exist without mutual help. All therefore that need aid have a right to ask it from their fellow-men; and no one who has the power of granting can refuse it without guilt.
We shall never learn to feel and respect our real calling and destiny unless we have taught ourselves to consider every thing as moonshine compared with the education of the heart.
Be a friend to yourself, and others will follow.
Happiness comes when you are content with what you have done and wit what you are. Happy people look on their goals, their motives, thei feelings, and their situation and see themselves as intrinsically good.
Enthusiasm is the best protection in any situation. Wholeheartedness i contagious. Give yourself, if you wish to get others.
No person will work for your interests unless they are also theirs too.
All things are bound together. All things connect. Whatever happens t the Earth happens to the children of the Earth.
People do not weave the web of life, they are merely a strand i it. Whatever they do to the web, they do to themselves.
The earth does not belong to man, man belongs to the earth      All things are connected like the blood that unites us all      Man did not weave the web of life, he is merely a strand in it      Whatever he does to the web, he does to himself.
No virtue is safe that is not enthusiastic
Happiness is essentially a state of going somewhere, wholeheartedly one-directionally, without regret or reservation.
There must be more to life than having everything.
A benefit consists not in that which is done or given, but in th intention of the giver or doer.
A good mind possesses a kingdom: a great fortune is a great slavery.
A person's ability cannot possibly be of one sort and their soul o another. If their soul be well-ordered, serious and restrained, thei ability also is sound and sober. Conversely, when the one degenerates, th other is contaminated.
Enjoy present pleasures in such a way as not to injure future ones.
Certain laws have not been written, but they are more fixed than all of the written laws.
It is better to have useless knowledge than to know nothing.
It is not because things are difficult that we do not dare. It is because we do not dare they are difficult.
 It is part of the cure to wish to be cured.
Part of any cure is the wish to be cured.
Luck is what happens when preparation meets opportunity.
Luck never made a person wise.
Many might have attained Wisdom had they not thought they had already attained it.
My joy in learning is partly that it enables me to teach.
No person ever become wise by chance.
Nothing shall seem to me so truly my possessions as the gifts I hav wisely bestowed.
No tree becomes rooted and sturdy unless many a wind assails it. For by its very tossing it tightens its grip and plants its roots more securely. The fragile tress are those that have grown in a sunny valley.
People trust their eyes rather than their ears; the road by precept i long and tedious, by example short and effectual.
Power exercised with violence has seldom been of long duration, bu temper and moderation generally produce permanence in all things.
The happiness of your mind depends upon the quality of your thoughts.
The mind that is anxious about the future is miserable.
The most grievous kind of destitution is to need money in the midst of wealth.
There is no favourable wind without direction.
There is nothing in the world so much admired as a person who knows ho to bear unhappiness with courage.
The reward of a good deed is to have done it.
Those that do good to another do good to themselves, not only in the consequences but in the very act. For the consequences of well-doing is in itself ample reward.
To be able to endure odium is the first art to be learned by those wh aspire to power.
True wisdom consists in not departing from nature and in moulding our conduct according to her laws and model.
Misunderstanding doesnt exist. What exists is people who dont talk.
Real learning gets to the heart of what it means to be human. Through learning we re-create ourselves. Through learning we become able to do something we never were able to do. Through learning we reperceive the world and our relationships to it. Through learning we extend our capacity to create, to be part of the generative process of life. There is within each of us a deep hunger for this type of learning.
God grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change, the courage to change the things I can, and the wisdom to know the difference.
It isn't the mountain ahead that wears you out -- it's the grain of san in your shoe.
Be who you are and say what you feel, because those who mind dont matter and those who matter dont mind.
Consideration is not merely a matter of emotional goodwill but o intellectual vigor and moral self-sacrifice. Wisdom must combine wit sympathy. That is why consideration underlies the phrase a scholar and  gentleman ('person'), which really sums up the ideal of the output of  college education.
Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears I come to bury Caesar, not to praise him The evil that men do lives after them The good is oft interred with their bones.
If you can look into the seeds of time And say which grain will grow and which will not Speak then to me, who neither beg nor fea Your favours not your hate.
Let me not to the marriage of true mind Admit impediments. Love is not lov Which alters when it alteration finds Or bends with the remover to remove O, no! it is an ever-fixed mark That looks on tempests and is never shaken.
Lord! we know what we are, but know not what we may be.
Men at some time are masters of their fates The fault dear Brutus, is not in our stars But in ourselves, that we are underlings.
Neither a borrower nor a lender be For loan oft loses both itself and friend And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry This above all: to thine own try self be true And it must follow as the night the day Thou canst not then be false to any man.
One touch of nature makes the whole world kin.
Our doubts are traitors, and make us lose the good we oft might win, by fearing to attempt.
Some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon them.
The fool doth think they are wise, but the wise know themselves to be fools.
The quality of mercy is not strained It droppeth as the gentle rain from heave Upon the place beneath: it is twice blessed It blesseth him that gives and him that takes 'Tis mightiest in the mightiest: it become The throned monarch better than its crown His sceptre shows the force of temporal power The attribute to awe and majesty Wherein doth sit the dread and fear of kings But mercy is above this sceptered sway It is enthroned in the hearts of kings It is an attribute to God himself And earthy power doth then show likest God' When mercy seasons justice. Therefore, Jew Though justice be thy plea, consider this That in the course of justice none of u Should see salvation: we do pray for mercy And that same prayer doth teach us all to rende The deeds of mercy.
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio Than are dreamt of in your philosophy.
There is a tide in the affairs of men Which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune Omitted, all the voyage of their lif Is bound in shallows and in miseries.
Things won are done; joy's soul lies in the doing.
To be, or not to be: that is the question: Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffe The slings and arrows of outrageous fortun Or to take arms against a sea of troubles And by opposing, end them?
To be wise, and lov Exceeds man's might.
 What's gone and what's past help Should be past grief.
All the joy the world contain Has come through wishing happiness for others All the misery the world contains Has come through wanting pleasure for oneself Is there need for lengthy explanation Childish beings look out for themselves While Buddhas labour for the good of others See the differences that divides them!
The art of leadership: to bet well, to act in the face of uncertainty to create the future.
Todays business leader cannot justify their existence by profits statements alone; they must also render service to their local, national, and world community.
Everything happens to everybody sooner or later if there is tim enough.
I am of the opinion that my life belongs to the whole community and as long as I live it is my privilege to do for it whatever I can.
I learned long ago, never to wrestle with a pig. You get dirty, and besides, the pig likes it.
It is not enough to know what is good; you must be able to do it.
It's all that the young can do for the old, to shock them and keep them up to date.
Liberty means responsibility. That is why most people dread it.
Life is no brief candle to me; it is a sort of bright torch which I hav got hold of for a moment and I want to make it burn as brightly as possibl before handling it on to future generations.
Make me a beautiful word for doing things tomorrow; for that surely is a great and blessed invention.
Man is unique in that he has plans, purpose and goals which require the need for criteria of choice. The need for ethical value is within man whose future may largely be determined by the choice he makes.
Nobody can live in society without conventions. The reason why sensibl people are as conventional as they can bear to be is that conventionalit saves so much time and thought and trouble and social friction of one sor or another that it leaves them much more leisure for freedom tha unconventionality does.
Our laws make law impossible; our liberties destroy all freedom; ou property is organized robbery; our morality an impudent hypocrisy; ou wisdom is administered by inexperienced or mal-experienced dupes; our powe wielded by cowards and weaklings; and our honour false in all its points.  am an enemy of the existing order for good reason.
People are always blaming their circumstances for what they are I don't believe in circumstances. The people who get on in this world ar the people who get up and look for the circumstances they want, and, i they can't find them, make them.
People are wise in proportion, not to their experience, but to thei capacity for experience.
People never tell you anything until you contact them.
Some people see things as they are and ask 'Why?' I dream of things tha never were and ask 'Why Not?'
The business man  the man to whom age brings golf instead of wisdom.
The Golden Rule is that there are no golden rules.
The only service a friend can really render is to keep up your courage by holdin up to you a mirror in which you can see a noble image of yourself.
The reasonable person adapts themself to the world; the unreasonable one persists in trying to adapt the world to them. Therefore all progress depends on the unreasonable person.
The nation's morals are like its teeth: the more decayed they are the more it hurts to touch them.
The test of a man or woman's breeding ('character') is how they behave in a quarrel.
The trouble with them is that they lacks the power of conversation but not the power of speech.
The two things that worthless people sacrifice everything for ar happiness and freedom, and their punishment is that they get both only t find that they have no capacity for the happiness and no use for th freedom.
This is the true joy in life the being used for a purpos Recognised by yourself as a mighty one The being thoroughly worn ou Before you are thrown on the scrap heap The being a force of Nature instead of a feverish, selfish little clo of ailments and grievance Complaining that the worl will not devote itself to making you happy I am of the opinion that my lif belongs to the whole community, an for as long as I live, it is my privileg to do for it whatever I can I want to be thoroughly used up when I di for the harder I work, the more I live I rejoice in life for its own sake Life is no 'brief candle' to me It is a sort of splendid torc which I have got hold of for the moment I want to make it burn as brightly as possibl before handing it on to future generations.
We are made wise not by the recollection of the past but by the responsibility for our future.
We have no more right to consume happiness without producing it than to consume wealth without producing it.
We learn from experience that people never learn anything from experience.
We learn from history that we learn nothing from history.
When a stupid person is doing something they are ashamed of, they always declares that it is their duty.
With freedom comes responsibility; that is why so many are frightened by it.
You'll never have a quiet world till you knock the patriotism out of the human race.
Youth is a wonderful thing; what a crime to waste it on children.
Death is the veil which those who live call life They sleep, and it is lifted.
Fear not for the future, weep not for the past.
The good want power, but to weep barren tear The powerful goodness want: worse need for them The wise want love, and those who love want wisdom.
The more we study, the more we discover our ignorance.
There is no real wealth but the labour of people. Were the mountains o gold and the valleys of silver, the world would not be one grain of cor richer; not one comfort would be added to the human race.
Whatever strengthens and purifies the affections, enlarges th imagination, and adds spirit to sense, is useful.
A desire for bigness has hurt many folks. Putting oneself in th limelight at the expense of others is a wrong idea of greatness. The secre of greatness rather than bigness is to acclimate oneself to one's place o service and be true to one's own convictions. A life of this kind o service will forever remain the measure of one's true greatness.
These are our times and our responsibilities. Every human being has  sacred duty to protect the welfare of our Mother Earth, from whom all lif comes. In order to do this we must recognize the enemy -- the one withi us. We must begin with ourselves....
 *Happiness is not in our circumstances, but in ourselves. It is not something we see, like a rainbow, or feel, like the heat of a fire. Happiness is something we are.
When it come to giving some people stop at nothing.
We shouldn't believe that small wrong doing can do no harm, because eve the small spark can ignite a giant pile of hay. Similarly, the value of th smallest good deeds should not be underestimated, for even tiny flakes o snow, falling one on top another, can blanket the tallest mountains in pur whiteness.
The tiger of the mind is more ferocious than the tiger of the jungle.
Never measure your generosity by what you give, but by what you have left.
You can lead people to knowledge, but you cannot make them think.
The price of awareness is enormous but it is not necessarily  sacrifice. Much is demanded of you, because you have the capacity t contribute and because you are a leader in business. This will b especially true in the next ten to twenty years. For paying the price, yo will receive in return the priceless gift of your own growth and evolution your own greater consciousness and connectedness Shipka, Barbara (Leadership in a Challenging World: A Sacred Journey
We need to move into maturity and develop an understanding that progres may mean lessening quantitative growth and increasing qualitative growth What qualitative growth of business and society could look like is part o the mystery we are encountering.
Those who dont know their own history are doomed to repeat it.
The glories of our blood and stat Are shadows, not substantial things There is no armour against fate Death lays his icy hand on kings Sceptre and crow Must tumble down And in the dust be equal mad With the poor crooked scythe and spade.
No leader can make a happy, humane, workable society out of a stubbor lot of individuals who are more conscious of their rights than of thei responsibilities, who accept a low moral standard in business and famil life, who want more than they need, and are motivated by fear and greed some of them forcing their will through blocs of special interests whic are prejudicial to the welfare of the whole society.
The search for wisdom is a great challenge; to act on wisdom is an even greater challenge.
Liars ought to have good memories.
If I told patients to raise their blood levels of immune globulin's o killer T-cells, no one would know how. But if I can teach them to lov themselves and others fully, the same change happens automatically. Th truth is 'Love heals.'
Learn wisdom from the ways of a seedling. A seedling which is never hardened off through stressful situations will never become a strong productive plant.
Whatever you would have your children become, strive to exhibit in you own lives and conversation
Treat others as thou would'st be treated thyself.
 There are no short cuts to any place worth going.
You may be disappointed if you fail, but you are doomed if you dont try.
He is educated who knows how to find out what he doesnt know.
Integrity is the first step to true greatness. People love praise, bu are slow to practice it.
Live only for today, and you ruin tomorrow.
No-one has a right to do as they please, except when they please to do right.
Wealth is a dangerous inheritance, unless the inheritor is trained t active benevolence.
The only true source of politeness is consideration -- that vigilan moral sense which never loses sight of the rights, the claims and th sensibilities of others.
Those who would acquire fame must not show themselves afraid of censure The dread of censure is the death of genius.
A wealth of information creates a poverty of attention.
The key to wisdom is knowing all the right questions.
The world has never been so rich in helpers as it is today, an consequently never have there been people so happy and so blessed in thei lives. Volunteers for human service seem to spring from the ground. I would be difficult to point out a more encouraging fact for the world' future.
We have to believe in free will. We have no choice.
Simplicity doesnt mean to live in misery and poverty. You have what you need and you dont want to have what you dont need.
A scientist had a bird in his hand. He saw that it had life and wanting to find out in what part of the bird's body its life lay, he bega dissecting the bird. The result was that the very life he was in search o disappeared. Those who try to understand the mysteries of the inner lif intellectually will meet with similar failure. The life they are lookin for will vanish in the analysis.
Let us put our minds together and see what life we can make for ou children.
Put your heart, mind and intellect and soul even to your smallest acts This is the secret of success.
Some of us have turned our freedom into exploitation, our land into  dust bowl. We can't make a nation strong when it is held together by th rotten rope of self-interest. Too often we think of democratically only i terms of getting our rights.
A failure is not always a mistake; it may simply be the best one can d under the circumstances. The real mistake is to stop trying.
The future will be exactly like the past, only more expensive.
The central myth of the 20th century is that path to human destiny is by way of science, machines and rationality. This book has argued that these have been over-valued and that a more productive path will also require foresight and the pursuit of wisdom.
Most of the conflicts and disagreements among men result from misunderstanding.
Real communication is impossible without listening.
Understanding comes through communication, and through understanding w find the way to peace.
Hope is like the sun, which, as we journey toward it, casts the shado of our burden behind us.
It will generally be found that people who are constantly lamentin their ill luck are only reaping the consequences of their own neglect mismanagement, or want of application.
National progress is the sum of individual industry, energy, and uprightness, as national decay is of individual idleness, selfishness, and vice.
Practical wisdom is only to be learned in the school of experience. Precepts and instruction are useful so far as they go, but, without the discipline of real life, they remain of the nature of theory only.
The experience gathered from books, though often valuable, is but the nature of learning; whereas the experience gained from actual life is one of the nature of wisdom.
 ... the most important results in daily life are to be obtained, no through the exercise of extraordinary powers, such as genius and intellect but through the energetic use of simple means and ordinary qualities, wit which nearly all human individuals have been more or less endowed ...
The secret of happiness: enjoy small pleasures.
The spirit of self-help is the root of all genuine growth in the individual.
Those who have most to do, and are willing to work, will find the mos time.
To be worth anything, character must be capable of standing firm upo its feet in the world of daily work, temptation, and trial.
We learn wisdom from failure much more than from success. We ofte discover what will do, by finding out what will not do; and probably those who never made a mistake never made a discovery.
No society can surely be flourishing and happy, of which the far greate part of the members are poor and miserable.
To feel much for others and little for ourselves; to restrain ou selfishness and exercise our benevolent affections, constitute th perfection of human nature.
What can be added to the happiness of someone who is in health, out o debt, and has a clear conscience?
Often our eyes see 
.....But who are we? A simple reflection of those who are? I am reminded to look within my own soul for answers. For we are all given a spirit of wisdom. Today may I not only see those who are, but may I also see who I am.
Leaders get out front and stay there by raising the standards by which they judge themselves  and by which they are willing to be judged.
The true secret of giving advice is, after you have honestly given it to be perfectly indifferent whether it is taken or not and never persist i trying to set people right.
If you take the best of the enduring world religions, you have the distilled wisdom of the human race.
People say that life is the thing, but I prefer reading.
There are two things to aim at in life: first, to get what you want and after that, to enjoy it. Only the wisest of mankind achieve the second.
I believe that in our constant search for security we can never gain an peace of mind until we secure our own soul.
The future of civilization is, to a great extent, being written in th classrooms of the world.
The person who cannot believe in themselves cannot believe in anythin else. The basis of all integrity and character is whatever faith we have i our own integrity.
The ability to accept responsibility is the measure of the person.
Never try to reason the prejudice out of a person. It was not reasone into them and cannot be reasoned out.
A great deal of talent is lost to the world for want of a littl courage. Every day sends to their graves obscure people whom timidit prevented from making a first effort.
Among the smaller duties of life, I hardly know any one more importan than that of not praising when praise is not due.
It is the calling of great men, not so much to preach new truths, as t rescue from oblivion those old truths which it is our wisdom to remembe and our weakness to forget.
It is the greatest of all mistakes to do nothing because you can only d a little. Do what you can.
Life is to be fortified by many friendships. To love and to be loved i the greatest happiness.
No enjoyment, however inconsiderable, is confined to the present moment A person is the happier for life from having made once an agreeable tour or lived for any length of time with pleasant people, or enjoyed an considerable interval of innocent pleasure.
The only true way to make the mass of mankind see the beauty of justic is by showing to them in pretty plain terms the consequences of injustice.
Passion is in all great searches and is necessary to all creativ endeavours.
Some folks are wise and some are otherwise.
When we act upon the formula of giving servic we seem to get what we want and we also get it for the other person too In the high art of serving others, workers sustain their morale management keeps its customers and the nation prospers One of the indisputable lessons of lif is that we cannot get or keep anythin for ourselves alon unless we also get it for others too.
Do we know that truth is life and falsehood spiritual death? Do we kno that beauty is joy and ugliness sin? Do we know that justice is th condition of well-being and happiness, while injustice of any kind i defeat? In a universe of uncertainties these values alone are certain. The give order and design to living.
The future evolves in an orderly manner, out of the realities of the past filtered and shaped by the decisions of the present.
Nature is not a place to visit, it is home.
In all living there is a certain narrowness of application which lead to breadth and power. We have to concentrate on a thing in order to maste it. Than we must be broad enough not to be narrowed by our specialties.
Individual thrift and responsibility for the future must be preserved i we are to be healthy and prosperous under any social system, whatever it i to be. No social planning can invent a substitute for the general principl of individual self-support. Two irresponsible persons added together do no make a happy home, nor do a thousand individual failures, howeve organized, make a successful community.
Nothing is so strong as gentleness, and nothing is so gentle as rea strength.
The larger the island of knowledge, the longer the shoreline of wonder.
A short saying oft contains much wisdom.
Employ your time in improving yourself by other mens writing, so that you shall come easily by what others have labored hard for.
Grant to me that I may be made beautiful in my soul within, and that al external possessions be in harmony with my inner man. May I consider th wise man rich and may I have such wealth as only the self-restrained ma can bear or endure.
He is richest who is content with the least; for content is the wealth of nature.
I am not an Athenian or a Greek, but a citizen of the world.
If all our misfortunes were laid in one common heap and everyone must take an equal portion, most people would be contented to take their own and depart.
Nothing can harm a good man, either in life or after death.
One who permits malice is not a person of wisdom
The beginning of wisdom is the definition of terms.
The Delphi oracle said I was the wisest of all Greeks. It is because that I alone, of all the Greeks, know that I know nothing 
The person is wisest who realizes that their wisdom is worthless.
The only true wisdom is knowing you know nothing.
The shortest and surest way to live with honour in the world, is to b in reality what we would appear to be; all human virtues increase an strengthen themselves by the practice and experience of them.
The way to gain a good reputation is to endeavour to be what you desir to appear.
Those who want the fewest things are nearest to the gods.
True wisdom comes to each of us when we realize how little we understand about life, ourselves, and the world around us.
Wisdom begins in wonder.
For the very true beginning of wisdom is the desire of discipline; and the care of discipline is love.
Woe unto them that are wise in their own eyes.
But I grow old always learning many things.
If all people were to bring their miseries together in one place, mos would be glad to take each their own home again rather than take a portio out of the common stock.
Learn all the time; do not wait in the faith that old age will bring wisdom by itself.
The line separating good and evil passes not through states, nor betwee political parties either, but right through every human heart.
The salvation of mankind lies only in making everything the concern o all.
One is remembered for what one does for others; not for what one does for self.
Trust is the fabric that binds us together, creating an orderl civilized society from chaos and anarchy .... Trust must be carefull constructed, vigorously nurtured, and constantly reinforced.
A short saying oft contains much wisdom.
Treasure every moment you have and remember that time waits for no one. Happiness is a journey, not a destination.
We learn wisdom from failure much more than from success. We often discover what will do, by finding out what will not do; and probably those who never made a mistake never made a discovery.
The line between good and evil is in the centre of every human heart.
Positive thoughts make you feel not only happier, but help you to live longer.
A short saying often contains much wisdom.
Happiness depends on wisdom.
Much wisdom often goes with fewer words.
A short saying often contains much wisdom
Nobody has a more sacred obligation to obey the law than those who make the law.
One must learn by doing the thing; for though you think you know it yo have no certainty, until you try.
Our happiness depends upon wisdom all the way.
The keenest sorrow is to recognize ourselves as the sole cause of al our adversities.
The greatest grief's are those we cause ourselves.
There are many wonderful things, and nothing is more wonderful tha people.
These things are in the future; we needs must do what lies at hand.
Though a person be wise, it is no shame for them to live and learn.
Wisdom is the supreme part of happiness.
Wisdom outweighs any wealth.
If there be any truer measure of a perso than by what they d it must be by what they give.
Worry, whatever its source, weakens, takes away courage, and shorten life.
People can acquire knowledge but not wisdom.
But how do they learn wisdom?
When you talk, you repeat what you already know; when you listen, yo often learn something.
The gates of wisdom and truth are forever closed to those who are wis in their own conceits; they have always opened before the expectancy of th humble and the teachable. The great need of the religious soul is th capacity to be receptive. It is a matter of record that no generation o religious people throughout history has ever been lacking in the fellowshi and leadership of men and women of rare intellectual power.
Hero-worship is strongest where there is least regard for huma freedoms.
No one can be perfectly free till all are free; no one can be perfectl moral till all are moral; no one can be perfectly happy till all ar happy.
Opinion is ultimately determined by the feelings and not by th intellect.
People must not forget that they are both decendents of the past and parents of the future.
Science is organised knowledge.
The great aim of education is not knowledge but action.
The ultimate result of shielding people from the effects of folly, is t fill the world with fools.
The wise person must remember that while they are a descendant of th past, they are also a parent of the future.
Time: That which people are always trying to kill, but which ends i killing them.
When a person's knowledge is not in order, the more of it they have th greater will be their confusion.
This is an age in which the struggle is for people's minds; a struggl to create understanding and sympathy between peoples of different races culture and history; a struggle in which all those who love freedom will d all they can to establish at least a powerful mental alliance amongs themselves against the forces of tyranny. Lets us each -- yourself an myself -- all of us -- work toward the goal that in the end we may live i peace and good will together.
We must do what we can to reduce, not increase tensions. We must do wha we can to present only the facts as we know them, not as we imagine them t be. We must learn to live with crisis in an age which calls for cool head and accurate appraisals.
For myself, I am certain that the good of human life cannot lie in th possession of things which, for one person to possess, is for the rest t lose, but rather in things which all can possess alike, and where on person's wealth promotes their neighbour's.
The world would be happier if people had the same capacity to be silen that they had to speak.
It is not how much we have, but how much we enjoy, that makes happiness.
Wisdom is the right use of knowledge. To know is not to be wise. Man people know a great deal, and are all the greater fools for it. There is n fool so great a fool as a knowing fool. But to know how to use knowledge i to have wisdom.
Wisdom is having things right in your life and knowing why.
It is easy to dodge our responsibilities, but we cannot dodge the consequences of dodging our responsibilities.
Be wiser than other people if you can but do not tell them so.
Money has little value to its possessor unless it also has value t others.
The greatest wisdom is to realize ones lack of it.
I have no sympathy with the old idea that children owe such immens gratitude to their parents that they can never fulfill their obligations t them. I think the obligation is all on the other side. Parents can never d too much for their children to repay them for the injustice of havin brought them into the world, unless they have insured them high moral an intellectual gifts, fine physical health, and enough money and education t render life something more than one ceaseless struggle for necessaries.
Nothing strengthens the judgment and quickens the conscience lik individual responsibility.
The goal of life is imminent in each moment, each thought, word, act and does not have to be sought apart from these. It consists in no specifi achievement, but the state of mind in which everything is done, the qualit infused into existence. The function of people is not to attain objectives but to fulfill a purpose; not to accomplish but to be accomplished.
There will be selfishness and greed and corruption and narrowness an intolerance in the world tomorrow and tomorrow's tomorrow. But pray we ma have the courage and the wisdom and the vision to raise a definite standar that will appeal to the best that is in people, and then strive mightil toward that goal.
One must spend time in gathering knowledge to give it out richly
Simplicity, of all things, is the hardest to be copied.
Personal responsibility is the bricks and mortar of power. Th responsible person knows that the quality of their life is something tha they will have to make inside the limits of their fate. Some of thes limits can be pushed back and some cannot, but in any case the quality o life will pretty much reflect the quality of the effort. When this lin between well-being and action is truly accepted, the result is power. Wit this understanding and the knowledge that the individual is responsible,  person can then see their margin of Choice. They can chose and act, choos and act again, without illusion. They can create themself and make themsel felt in the world. Such a person has power.
Greatness is a two-faced coin -- and its reverse is humility.
No-one really becomes a fool until they stops asking questions.
Feminine wisdom is a continual affirmation of life, through its eterna readiness to respond to the quick of the moment; it is not communicated b the word or rite, but through presence and being.
The wise person questions the wisdom of others because he questions their own, the foolish person, because it is different from their own.
The life of the creative person is led, directed and controlled b boredom. Avoiding boredom is one of our most important purposes. It is als one of the most difficult ... in the end working is good because it is th last refuge of the person who wants to be amused.
The Human Race, unlike any other thing organic or inorganic in th universe, grows beyond their works, walks up the stairs of their concepts emerges ahead of their accomplishments.
Were all born into this mess. Were not responsible for it. Were only responsible for every day we let it go on without changing things.
Money is a stupid measure of achievement but unfortunately it is th only universal measure we have.
No man really becomes a fool until he stops asking questions.
Spiritual power is a force which history clearly teaches has been th greatest force in the development of the human race. Yet we have bee merely playing with it and never have really studied it as we have physica forces. Some day people will learn that material things do not brin happiness, and are of little use in making people creative and powerful Then the scientists of the world will turn their laboratories over to th study of spiritual forces which have hardly been scratched.
The mark of the immature person is that they want to die nobly for  cause, while the mark of the mature person is that they want to live humbl for one.
Women are stronger than men -they do not die of wisdom They are better than men because they do not seek wisdom They are wiser than men because they know less and understand more.
The question of wealth is like chasing a rainbow. I have hunted  rainbow in an aeroplane, but always in the end it was just grey mist. I seems to me that the pursuit of riches is such an exacting task that the who strives for them must soon forget what it was they originally hoped t acquire. Even if they remember, they are so old, and so weary, or both that the star they strove to reach turns out to be merely mist, grey mist and nothing more. What we thought was happiness is so seldom what w thought it was.
Lessons of wisdom have the most power over us when they capture the heart through the groundwork of a story, which engages the passions.
The desire of knowledge, like the thirst of riches, increases ever wit acquisition of it.
Happiness has many roots, but none more important than a sense o security.
We can achieve the utmost in economics by engineering knowledge; we ca conquer new fields by research; we can build plants and machines that shal stand among the wonders of the world; but unless we put the right person i the right place -- unless we make it possible for our workers an executives alike to enjoy a sense of satisfaction in their jobs, ou efforts will have been in vain.
A wise person does not try to hurry history. Many wars have been avoide by patience, and many have been precipitated by reckless haste.
Every age needs people who will redeem the time by living with a visio of things that are to be.
It is not the years in your life but the life in your years that counts.
It is often easier to fight for a principle than to live up to it.
It is said that a wise person who stands firm is a statesman, and  foolish person who stands form is a catastrophe.
Laws are never as effective as habits.
My definition of a free society is a society where it is safe to b unpopular.
Nature is neutral. People have wrested from nature the power to make th world a desert or to make the deserts bloom. There is no evil in the atom only in our souls.
What do I believe? As an American I believe in generosity, in liberty in rights for everyone. These are social and political faiths that are par of me, as they are, I suppose part of all of us. Such beliefs are easy t express. But part of  me too is my relation to all life, my religion. And this is not so easy t talk about. Religious experience is highly intimate and, for me, read words are not at hand.
Anyone can carry their burden, however hard, until nightfall. Anyone ca do their work, however, hard, for one day. Anyone can live sweetly patiently, lovingly, purely, till the sun goes down. And this is all tha life really means.
Dont judge each day by the harvest you reap, but by the seeds you plant.
It is not enough to be ready to go where duty calls. People should stan around where they can hear the call.
Life is not a matter of holding good cards, but of playing a poor hand well.
Keep busy at something. A busy person never has time to be unhappy.
Our business in this world is not to succeed, but to continue to fail i good spirits.
Sympathy is a thing to be encouraged apart from humane considerations because it supplies us with the material for wisdom.
Talk is by far the most accessible of pleasure. It costs nothing i money, it is all profit, it completes our education, founds and fosters ou friendships, and can be enjoyed at any age and in almost any state o health.
There are two things that people should never weary of -- goodness an humility.
There is no duty we so much underrate as the duty of being happy. B being happy, we sow anonymous benefits upon the world, which remain unknow even to ourselves, or when they are disclosed, surprise nobody so much a the benefactor.
Those people are a success who have lived well, laughed often and love much.
To believe in immortality is one thing, but it is first needful t believe in life.
To travel hopefully is a better thing than to arrive, and the tru success is to labour.
If it is sensible for the child to make an effort to learn how to be a adult, then it is essential for the adult to learn how to be aged.
It is the hands of others who grow the food we eat, who sew the clothes we wear, who build the houses we inhabit; It is the hands of others who tend us when were sick and life is up when we fall; It is the hands of others who bring us into the world and who lower us into the earth.
We learn to do neither by thinking nor by doing; we learn to do b thinking about what we are doing.
There is little difference in people, but that little difference makes  big difference. The little difference is attitude. The big difference i whether it is positive or negative.
You can take credit for beauty at sixteen. But if you are beautiful a sixty, it will be your soul's own doing.
Eternity's a terrible thought. I mean, where's it all going to end?
It is a tragic paradox that the very qualities that have led to  person's extra-ordinary capacity for success are also those most likely t destroy them.
The past, the present and the future are really one -- they are today.
Common sense is the knack of seeing things as they are, and doing thing as they ought to be done.
The quality of our thoughts is bordered on all sides by our facility with language.
I have learned throughout my life as a composer chiefly through my mistakes and pursuits of false assumptions, not by my exposure to founts of wisdom and knowledge.
Growing old -- it's not nice, but it's interesting.
People who want to understand democracy should spend less time in th library with Aristotle and more time on the buses and in the subway.
Complacency is the enemy of progress.
What good can it do children when we talk about virtue but our actions bear witness to vice.
We are forced to measure each moment partly in and of itself, for if everything is justified solely by the future, life because rather futile.
We worked unlimited hours as plant managers, to cover all the bases i the old system. We were doing it for the money, and really, at a cost t our families since we were gone so much. As a result some of us had ulcer and other problems. When our goal is not correct, it's going to stress ou spiritual side too.
Teach the young people how to think, not what to think.
All history is only one long story to this effect: men have struggled for power over their fellowmen in order that they might win the joys of earth at the expense of others, and might shift the burden of life from their own shoulders upon those of others.
Those people who start out with the notion that the world owes them  living generally find that the world pays its debt in the penitentiary o the poor house.
As long as you can find someone else to blame for anything you ar doing, you cannot be held accountable or responsible for your growth or th lack of it.
No one can give you wisdom. You must discover it for yourself, on th journey through life, which no one can take for you.
Opportunities multiply as they are seized.
The successful person has unusual skill in dealing with conflict and ensuring the best outcome for all.
1. Do not be deluded. 2. If you cant help being deluded, do not judge others, and do not feel guilty. 3. If you cant help being deluded, and you cant help judging or feeling guilt, do not open your mouth.
Business wisdom is pretty straightforward. Act on the best evidence possible, and learn from your mistakes.
It is not power that corrupts, but fear of losing power corrupts those who wield it and fear of the scourge of power corrupts those who are subject to it.
When an old person dies, a library is lost.
Fear less, hope more; eat less, chew more; whine less, breathe more talk less, say more; hate less, love more; and all good things are yours.
If you buy what you dont need, you steal from yourself.
The afternoon knows what the morning never suspected.
The future is not something we enter. The future is something we create.
We are rich only through what we give: and poor only through what w refuse and keep.
We do not judge people by what they are in themselves, but by what the are relative to us.
 A wise person should have money in their head, but not in their heart.
It is impossible that anything so natural, so necessary, and s universal as death should ever have been designed by Providence as an evi to mankind.
Laws are like cobwebs, which may catch small flies, but let wasps an hornets break through.
May you live all the days of your life.
No wise person ever wished to be younger.
Whosoever could make two ears of corn, or two blades of grass, to gro upon a spot of ground where only one grew before, would deserve better o mankind, and do more essential service to his country, than the whole rac of politicians put together.
To have read the greatest works of any great poet, to have beheld o heard the greatest works of any great painter or musician, is a possessio added to the best things of life.
The longer I live, the more I realize the impact of attitude on life. Attitude, to me is more important than facts. It is more important than the past, the education, the money, than circumstances, than failure, than successes, than what other people think or say or do. It is more important than appearance, giftedness or skill. It will make or break a company  a church  a home. The remarkable thing is we have a choice everyday regarding the attitude we will embrace for that day. We cannot change our past . we cannot change the fact that people will act in a certain way. We cannot change the inevitable. The only thing we can do is play on the one string we have, and that is our attitude. I am convinced that life is 10% what happens to me and 90% of how I react to it. And so it is with you . we are in charge of our attitudes.
The end of all knowledge should be in virtuous action.
Anyone can hold the helm when the sea is calm.
It is a good thing to learn caution by the misfortunes of others.
It matters not what you are thought to be, but what you are.
No person knows what they can do until they try.
No person is happy unless they believe they are.
The future struggles not to let itself be mastered.
The wise person sees in the misfortune of others what they shoul avoid.
The wise person avoids evil by anticipating it.
Wise people learn by the other people's mistakes, fools by their own.
The stupid neither forgive nor forget, the naive forgive & forget; th wise forgive but do not forget.
Discovery consists of looking at the same thing as everyone else an thinking something different.
The person with the average mentality, but with control, with  definite goal, and a clear conception of how it can be gained, and abov all, with the power of application and labor, wins in the end.
Too many people don't care what happens so long as it doesn't happe to them.
Joy is everywhere it is in the earth' green covering of grass in the blu serenity of the sky in the reckles exuberance of spring in the severe abstinenc of grey winter in the living fles that animates our bodily frame in the perfect pois of the human figure noble and upright in living, in the exercis of all our powers in the acquisition of knowledg  Joy is there everywhere.
Our responsibility is no longer to acquire, but to be.
We live in this world when we love it.
The art of putting the right people in the right places is first th science of government; but that of finding places for the discontented i the most difficult.
The art of statesmanship is to foresee the inevitable and to expedit its occurrence.
War is much too serious a thing to be left to military men.
Life is what happens to you when you're making other plans.
Blessed is the generation in which the old listen to the young; an doubly blessed is the generation in which the young listen to the old.
Everyone whose deeds are more than their wisdom, their wisdom endures And everyone whose wisdom is more than their deeds, their wisdom does no endure.
In seeking wisdom thou art wise; in imagining that thou hast attained it  thou art a fool.
We do not see things as they are: we see things as we are.
The highest form of wisdom is kindness.
Goodwill is the mightiest practical force in the universe.
The rich who are truly wealth Are those who relieve the needs of their neighbors.
If you cant change your fate, change your attitude.
Regard your neighbour's gain as your own gain; and regard you neighbour's loss as your own loss.
The wise person does not lay up treasure. The more they give t others, the more they have for themselves.
Wise people seek solutions. The ignorant cast blame.
In dwelling, live close to the ground In thinking, keep to the simple In conflict, be fair and generous In governing, don't try to control In work, do what you enjoy In family life, be completely present.
Knowing others is intelligence Knowing yourself is true wisdom Mastering others is strength Mastering yourself is true power If you realize that you have enough, you are truly rich.
See the world as your self Have faith in the way things are Love the world as your self; then you can care for all things.
What the caterpillar calls the end, the rest of the world calls  butterfly.
 Without stirring abroa             One can know the whole world             Without looking out of the windo             One can see the way of heaven             The further one goe             The less one knows.
Man is a creature that in the long run has got to believe in order t know, and to know in order to do.
An organized money market has many advantages. But it is not a schoo of social ethics or political responsibility.
Clever people are impressed in their differences from their fellows Wise people are conscious of their resemblance to them.
What matters is the kind of life which people lead and th satisfaction they find in it. And here, I suspect, most of us think to much of problems and too little of persons.
History is not another name for the past, as many people imply. It i the name for stories about the past.
If people are to respect each other for what they are, they must ceas to respect each other for what they own.
When we think we're separate, we lose power. Whenever I say 'my',  have lost my power. Power is not my power ... It is only gainable as par of a larger whole. Then you communicate with the rest of yourself - which may be a tree. You, reciprocally, are moved by the universe Whenever you shut down connectedness, you get depressed ... It's fearfu to know we're connected to everything in the universe, because we ar responsible.
This day only is ours, we are dead to yesterday, and we are not ye born to the morrow. But if we look abroad and brings into one day' thoughts the evil of many, certain and uncertain, what will be and wha will never be, our load will be as intolerable as it is unreasonable.
Our greatest problems in life come not so much from the situations w confront as from our doubts about our ability to handle them.
Thoughts are energy. And you can make your world or break your world by your thinking.
Nothing is so simple that it cannot be misunderstood.
When I can look life in the eyes, grown calm and very coldly wise, life will have given me the truth, and taken in exchange  my youth.
Love alone is capable of uniting living beings in such a way as t complete and fulfil them, for it alone takes them and joins them by wha is deepest in themselves.
The Future belongs to those who give the next generation hope.
Wisdom is that which makes men judge what are the best ends, and what are the best means to attain them, and gives a man advantages of counsel and direction.
Dreams are true while they last, and do we not live in dreams.
Federation of the Worl For I dipped into the future, far as the human eye could see Saw a vision of the world, and all the wonder that would be Saw the heavens filled with commerce, argosies of magic sails Pilots of the purple twilight, dropping down with costly bales Heard the heavens filled with shouting, and there rain'd a ghastl de From the nations' airy navies grappling in the central blue Far along the world-wide whisper of the south-wind rushing warm With the standards of the peoples plunging thoro' the thunderstorm Till the war-drum throbb'd no longer, and the battle-flags were furl' In the Parliament of men, the Federation of the World.
Knowledge comes, but wisdom lingers.
The happiness of a man in this life does not consist in the absenc but in the mastery of his passions.
 'Tis better to have loved and los Than never to have loved at all.
If you judge people, you have no time to love them.
I know God will not give m anything I can't handle I just wish that He didn't trust me so much.
Loneliness and the feeling of being unwanted is the most terribl poverty.
Love on earth begins at home.
The fruit of silence is praye The fruit of prayer is fait The fruit of faith is lov The fruit of love is servic The fruit of service is peace.
The poverty in the West is a different kind of poverty  it is not only a poverty of loneliness but also of spirituality.
There are many in the world dying for a piece of bread but there are many more dying for a little love.
To keep a lamp burning we have to keep putting oil in it.
To lead people, you hav       to understand them To understanding them, you hav       to be close to them To be close to the       you have to love them If you dont love them      you cannot lead.
We can do no great things -- only small things with great love.
I believe that only by being in the presence of beauty and the grea things in the world around us can man eventually get the goddamn hatre of wanting to kill each other out of his system. We begin to understand that we're only in this world such a short time its incredible we shoul spend these few years hating and killing each other.
The world is a looking glass and gives back to everyone the reflectio of their own face.
We sow a thought and reap an act We sow an act and reap a habit We sow a habit and reap a character We sow a character and reap a destiny.
The most difficult thing in life is to know yourself.
The unexpected happens
Miss no single opportunity for making some small sacrifice here by a smiling look, there by a kindly word always doing the smallest thing right and doing it all for love.
Many people have taken action, but if their state of being is no peaceful or happy, the actions they undertake only sow more trouble an anger and make the situation worse. So instead of saying 'Don't just si there; do something,' we should say the opposite, 'Don't just d something; sit there.'
Philosophy begins when we can discuss the language we use to discuss the world.
A good poem is a contribution to reality. The world is never the sam once a good poem has been added to it. A good poem helps to change th shape and significance of the universe, helps to extend everyone' knowledge of themselves and the world around them.
No matter what the future holds in store for Mankind ... no matte what the dawning of the Third Millennium may bring ... be it wisdom an peace, or chaos and sorrow ... whether we take our first steps toward ou salvation ... or spiral into our damnation ... always remember to kee your head held high, your shoulders square, a song in your heart, an your eyes on the Goal. After all ... we are only Human. Right?
We need science, more and better science, not for its technology, no for leisure, not even for health and longevity, but for the hope o wisdom which our kind of culture must acquire for its survival.
And only when we are no longer afraid do we begin to live in ever experience, painful or joyous; to live in gratitude for every moment, t live abundantly.
No person is so foolish but they may sometimes give another good counsel, and no person so wise that they may not err if they take no other counsel than their own. Those that are taught only by themselves has a fool for a master.
All this worldly wisdom was once the unamiable heresy of some wise person.
Do not hire a person who does your work for money, but those who do it for love.
It is characteristic of wisdom not to do desperate things.
It is not enough to be busy; so are the ants. The question is: Wha are we busy about?
It is the characteristic of wisdom not to do desperate things.
Most of the luxuries, and many of the so-called comforts, of life ar not only not indispensable, but positive hindrance to the elevation o mankind.
Not till we are lost, in others words, not till we have lost th world, do we begin to find ourselves, and realise where we are and th infinite extent of our relations.
Superfluous wealth can buy superfluities only.
To be a philosopher is not merely to have subtle thoughts, nor even to found a school, but so to love wisdom as to live according to its dictates, a life of simplicity, independence, magnanimity, and trust.
We can never have enough of nature We need to witness our own limit transgressed, and some life pasturin freely where we never wander.
Pessimistic future trends can only be reversed by a fundamental chang of heart in a sufficient number of people.
All men should strive to learn before they di What they are runnin from, and to, and why.
Basically the dominant competitive weapon of the 21st century will be the education and skills of the work force.
Four Noble Truth 1. All life is suffering 2. Suffering is caused by desire 3. The way to eliminate suffering is to reduce one's desire 4. Buddhist practice is the pathway to the cessation of desire.
Hope ever tells us tomorrow will be better.
People of colossal fortunes are in effect, if not in fact, trustee for the public.
Fear is the absence of faith.
The first duty of love is to LISTEN.
Those who are sincere have the easiest task in the world, for, truth being always consistent with itself, they are put to no trouble about their words and actions; it is like travelling on a plain road, which is sure to bring you to your journey's end better than byways in which man lose themselves.
Our lives are like the course of the sun. At the darkest moment there is the promise of daylight.
For the love of money is the root of all evil.
For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carr nothing out.
Nobody has ever been improved by Fame.
Nothing is quite so wretchedly corrupt as an aristocracy which has lost its power but kept its wealth and which has endless leisure to devote to nothing but banal enjoyments. All its great thoughts and passionate energy are things of the past, and nothing but a host of petty, gnawing vices now cling to it like worms to a corpse.
The public will always believe a simple lie over a complex truth.
What is most important for democracy is not that great fortunes shoul not exist, but that great fortunes should not remain in the same hands In that way they do not form a class.
Change is not merely necessary to life, it is life.
The illiterate of the future will not be the person who cannot read. It will be the person who does not know how to learn.
You have to think about big things while youre doing small things, so that all the small things go in the right direction.
All that is gold does not glitter, not all those that wander are lost.
In doubt a person of worth will trust to their own wisdom.
The wise speak only of what they know.
Look at a tree, a flower, a plant Let your awareness rest upon it How still they are how deeply rooted in Being Allow nature to teach you stillness.
And all people live, not by reason of any care they have for themselves, but by the love for them that is in other people.
A person should use the spiritual heritage which they have received from the wise and holy people of the past, but they should test everything with their intellect, accepting certain things and rejecting others.
A person who has overindulged will blame their meals. The same happens with people who are not satisfied with life.
A wise person is always joyful.
A wise person may not be a scholar, but famous scholars are necessarily wise people.
Depression is a state of soul in which you can see no sense either in your own life or in the world around you. This is painful for others. When your spirits are low or you are in a bad mood, spend some time in solitude.
Dissatisfaction is a necessity; it compels us to work.
Everything which happens in the lives of human individuals or human societies has had its beginnings in thought. Therefore we can find explanations for everything that has happened to other people not in previous events but in thoughts which occurred before the events took place.
Faith is the understanding of the meaning of life and the acceptance of your duties and responsibilities connected with it.
Happiness does not depend on outward things but on the way we see them.
Happiness lies in the search for truth, not in finding it.
If you care too much for praise, you will accomplish nothing serious.
If you want to be happy, be.
If you want to have a good name and not a bad name, do not praise yourself and do not allow others to praise you.
In order to change the order of things, either in ourselves or in other people, we must change not events, but the thoughts which created the events.
In order to get power and retain it, it is necessary to love power; but love of power is not connected with goodness but with qualities that are the opposite of goodness, such as pride, cunning and cruelty.
It is better to do nothing than to do harm.
It is better to know a few things which are good and necessary than many things which are useless and mediocre.
It is important to teach children kindness and simplicity in life and work. All moral and spiritual education of your children must be supported by your own good example. If you live virtuously, or at least try to do so, then the success of your good life will educate your children.
It is impossible to study everything, so it is necessary to know what is essential.
It would be nice if wisdom could flow from one person who is full of it to another who has none, in the same way that in two connected vessels water flows from one to the other until the level is the same in both of them. But the problem is that to achieve wisdom you have to make an independent, serious effort of your own.
Just as one candle lights another and can light thousands of others, so one heart illuminates another heart and can illuminate thousands of others.
Kindness is a necessary addition to everything.
Knowledge is a tool and not a purpose in itself.
Life is a place of service, and in that service one has to suffer a great deal that is hard to bear, but more often to experience a great deal of joy. But that joy can be real only if people look upon their life as a service, and have a definite object in life outside themselves and their personal happiness.
Love helps a person; it provides the purpose of their life. Intellect shows them the means to fulfil it.
Love is real only when one person sacrifices themselves from another. When we forget ourselves for the sake of another, and live for another: only this kind of love can be called true love, and only in this love can we see the blessing and reward of life. This is the foundation of the world.
Nothing can make life, or the lives of other people, more beautiful than perpetual kindness.
Only when we forget about ourselves, when we leave behind thoughts of ourselves, can we communicate fruitfully with other, listen to them and influence them.
Our body is a machine for living. It is organized for that, it is its nature. Let life go on in it unhindered and let it defend itself, it will do more than if you paralyse it by encumbering it with remedies.
People mistakenly think that virtue is knowledge of many things. But what is important is not the quantity, but the quality of the knowledge.
Read less, study less, but think more. Learn, both from your teachers and from the books which you read, only those things which you really need and really want to know.
Real knowledge may be obscured by unclear definitions and vague terminology. False scholars create unclear terms and artificial words.
Real love is not just love for some particular person, but the spiritual state of loving everybody.
Real love resides not in words but in deeds, and only real love can bestow wisdom.
Real wisdom is not in knowing what is good and what should be done; real wisdom is in knowing what is the better and what is the worse thing and therefore, what you should do first, and what you should do later.
Religion is simple wisdom which is directed to the heart and which is understood by the intellect.
Science is seldom connected with wisdom. A scholar may know much, but the wise person knows what is necessary both for humanity and for themselves.
The best thing for the development of wisdom is continuous spiritual effort.
The essence of religion consists solely in the answer to the question.
All the metaphysics of religion, all the doctrines about deities an about the origin of the world, and all external worship - which al usually supposed to be religion - are but indications (differin according to geographical, ethnographical and historical circumstances of the existence of religion. There is no religion from the most elevate to the coarsest that has not at its root this establishing of huma race's relation to the surrounding universe or to its first cause. Ther is no religious rite however coarse, nor any cult however refined, tha has not this at its root. Every religious teaching is the expressio which the founder of that religion has given of the relation the consider themselves (and consequently all other people also) to occupy a a individual towards the universe and its origin and first cause.
The greatest truth is the simplest one.
The higher opinion a person has of themselves, the more unstable is their position; the lower they place themselves in their own estimation, the firmer they stand.
The highest wisdom has but one science - the science of the whole  the science explaining the whole creation and our place in it.
The humbler a person is, the freer and stronger they are.
The improvement of society can be achieved only by the moral improvement of its citizens.
The more upset a person is with people and circumstances, and the more satisfied they are with themselves, the further they are from wisdom.
The most important time is now; it is the only time we have any power.
The more you transform your life from the material to the spiritual domain, the less afraid of death you become. Someone who lives a truly spiritual life has no fear of death.
The only real science is the knowledge of how a person should live their life. And this knowledge is open to everybody.
The present moment is the only time over which we have dominion. The most important person is always the person with whom you are, who is right before you, for who knows if you will have dealings with any other person in the future. The most important pursuit is making that person, the one standing at your side, happy, for that alone is the pursuit of life.
The purpose of human life is to transform the irrational into the rational. In order to succeed in this, two things are important -         note all irrational, unwise things in life and direct your attention to them and study them -         Understand the possibility of a rational, wise life The first aim of all teachers of mankind has been the understanding of the irrational and rational beginnings in our life.
There are no conditions of life to which a person cannot get accustomed, especially if they see them accepted by everyone about them.
There are tow ways to avoid poverty. The first is to acquire wealth, and the second is to limit your requirements. The first is not always within our power, but the second always is.
There is a natural simplicity, there is a simplicity of wisdom. Both of them evoke love and respect.
There is no evil in this world. All evil exists in our souls and can be destroyed.
The smallest detail can benefit the refinement of character. Do not say that small details are unimportant. Only those with high morals can see the importance of small details.
The sole meaning of life is to serve humanity.
The vocation of every man and women is to serve other people.
To respond to evil with kind words or to do good in return for some evil action is the best and the most accessible way to stop evil in this world.
We live for ourselves only when we live for others. It seems strange, but try it, and you will discover this truth from your own experience.
We should all make an effort, even if it is a small one, to improve the general well-being of humanity.
What a joy it is to do good. And this joy is increased when no one knows that you have done it.
What is important is not the quantity of your knowledge but its quality. You can know many things without knowing what is the most important.
What we should teach our children are those things which are common to all religions  Buddhist, Muslim, Christian, Jewish, etc, and those things which are clear to everybody: the moral science of love and the unification of people.
When you approach someone, you should think not about how they can help you but how you might serve them.
Wisdom is knowledge of good. But we cannot know everything. The real wisdom is not to know everything, but to know what is necessary, what is less necessary, and what is completely unnecessary. Among the necessary knowledge is the knowledge of how to live well  that is how to produce the least possible evil and the greatest goodness in ones life.
Wisdom is the understanding of lifes eternal truths.
You should live in such a way that violence is quite unnecessary.
For fast acting relief, try slowing down.
The trouble with being in the rat race is that even if you win, you're still a rat.
The world is what we think it is. If we can change our thoughts, we can change the world.
We learn the rope of life by untying its knots.
Why waste money on psychotherapy when you can listen to the B Mino Mass?
A leader is not an administrator who loves to run others, but someone who carries water for their people so that they can get on with their jobs.
If youre the boss and your people fight you openly when they think that you are wrong  thats healthy.
True leadership must be for the benefit of the followers, not th enrichment of the leaders.
As human beings, we are endowed with freedom of choice, and we cannot shuffle off our responsibility upon the shoulders of God or nature. We must shoulder it ourselves. It is our responsibility.
Civilization is a movement, not a condition. A voyage and not a harbour.
Futurists are revolutionaries who consciously and deliberately set ou to break with a disintegrating past in order to create a new society.
Nationalism is the big enemy of the human race. Technology has mad the world one, and nationalism tries to keep it apart.
The human race's prospects of survival were considerably better whe we were defenceless against tigers than they are today when we hav become defenceless against ourselves.
To be able to fill leisure intelligently is the last product o civilization.
We are in the first age since the dawn of civilization in which peopl have dared to think it practicable to make the benefits of civilizatio available to the whole human race.
Feminism is the most revolutionary idea there has ever been. Equality for women demands a change in the human psyche, more profound than anything Marx dreamed of. It means valuing parenthood as much as we value banking.
An average person with average talents and ambition and average education can outstrip the most brilliant genius in our society if the person has clear focused goals.
Every single life only becomes great when the individual sets upon a goal or goals which they really believe in, which they can really commit themselves to, which they can put their whole heart and soul into.
In life you can never be too kind or too fair, everyone you meet is carrying a heavy load. When you go through your day expressing kindness and courtesy to all you meet, you leave behind a feeling of warmth and good cheer, and you help alleviate the burdens everyone is struggling with.
Those people who develop the ability to continuously acquire new and better forms of knowledge that they can apply to their work and to their lives will be the movers and shakers in our society for the indefinite futures.
Remember the Greek saying that character strength comes from a lon process of dealing with adversity. Character is the result of countles hours of dealing with difficulties in a constructive way., Unfortunately it isn't a quick process.
Those people who develop the ability to continuously acquire new and better forms of knowledge that they can apply to their work and to their lives will be the movers and shakers in our society for the infinate future.
As I learnt very early in my life in Whitehall, the acid test of an political question is: What is the alternative?
Disinterested intellectual curiosity is the life-blood of rea civilization.
Education .... has produced a vast population able to read but unabl to distinguish what is worth reading.
When you try to change a persons paradigm, you must keep in mind that they can hear you only through the filter of the paradigm they hold.
Not by age but by capacity is wisdom acquired.
Love is like any other luxury. You have no right to it unless you ca afford it.
The twentieth century really belongs to those who will build it. Th future can be promised to no one.
My grandparents didnt teach me spirituality, they taught me wisdom. Theres a difference.
Democracy is based on the conviction that people have the moral an intellectual capacity, as well as the inalienable right to gover themselves with reason and justice.
I found that the men and women who got to the top were those who di the jobs they had in hand, with everything they had of energy an enthusiasm and hard work.
It is amazing what you can accomplish if you do not care who gets the credit.
I try to learn from the past, but I plan for the future by focusing exclusively on the present. Thats where the fun is.
A great deal of chaos in the world occurs because people don' appreciate themselves. Having never developed sympathy or gentlenes towards themselves, they cannot experience harmony or peace withi themselves, and therefore what they project on to others is als inharmonious and confused.
It is the mind that rules the body
I do not know whether I was then a man dreaming I was a butterfly, o whether I am now a butterfly dreaming I am a man.
Many Worlds -- Many Time Look, it cannot be seen -- it is beyond form Listen, it cannot be heard -- it is beyond sound Grasp, it cannot be held -- it is intangible These three are indefinable Therefore they are joined in one From above it is not bright From below it is not dark An unbroken thread beyond description It returns to nothingness The form of the formless The image of the imageless It is called indefinable and beyond imagination Stand before it and there is no beginning Follow it and there is no end stay with the ancient Tao Move with the present Knowing the ancient beginning is the essence of Tao.
Letting a hundred flowers blossom and a hundred schools of though contend is the policy for promoting progress in the arts and the science and a flourishing socialist culture in our land.
Every great dream begins with a dreamer. Always remember, you have within you the strength, the patience, and the passion to reach for the stars to change the world.
Friendship of a kind that cannot easily be reversed tomorrow must hav roots in common interests and shared beliefs.
If we wait for the moment when everything absolutely everything is ready, we shall never begin.
Nature is not a temple, but a workshop, and people the workmen in it.
Trust in Allah, but tie up your camel.
Some of the best lessons we ever learn are learned from past mistakes. The error of the past is the wisdom and success of the future.
Intellect and industry are never incompatible. There is more wisdom and will be more benefit, in combining them than scholars like t believe, or than the common world imagine; life has time enough for both and its happiness will be increased by the union.
Management that wants to change an institution must first show i loves that institution.
Concern for others is the best form of self interest
When you look at a massive problem it is good to remember about eatin an elephant. There is only one way to eat it; one piece at a time. Th sea is vast but the sea is just drops of water and each drop counts.
All you need in this life is ignorance and confidence; then success i sure.
A newspaper is not just for reporting the news, its to get people mad enough to do something about it.
If you tell the truth you don't have to remember anything.
Anyone with a poor memory should always tell the truth
It is better to deserve honours and not have them than to have the and not deserve them.
It is curious that physical courage should be so common in the world and moral courage so rare.
Keep away from people who try to belittle your ambitions. Small people always do that, but the really great make you feel that you too, can somehow, become great.
Plan for the future, because that is where you are going to spend the rest of your life.
Loyalty to petrified opinion never yet broke a chain or freed a huma soul.
The important thing is not how much we dont know, as how wrong we are in what we think we know.
The most successful people are those who do all year long what the would otherwise do on their summer vacation.
The perfection of wisdom, and the end of true philosophy is to proportion our wants to our possessions, our ambitions to our capacities, we will then be a happy and a virtuous people.
To be good is noble, but to teach others how to be good is nobler - and less trouble.
Twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things you didnt do than by the ones you did. So throw off the bowlines. Sail away from the safe harbour. Catch the trade winds in your sails. Explore. Dream.
We should be careful to get out of an experience only th wisdom that is in it -- and stop there; lest w be like the cat that sits down on a hot stove-lid. She will never sit down o the stove-lid again -- and that is well but also she will never sit dow on a cold one any more.
All wise people share one trait in common: the ability to listen.
Being able to do something well is one of life's great joys.
Even doing nothing takes doing.
Learning is either a continuing thing or it is nothing.
One of the greatest talents of all is the talent to recognize an develop talent in others.
Progress is not created by contented people.
The most important thing to do in solving a problem is to begin.
When it comes to winning, you need the skill and the will.
When you like your work, every day is a holiday.
To a mind that is still the whole universe surrenders.
So great is the confusion of the world that comes from covetin knowledge!
All actions must have a beginning and true compassion originates not as a philosophical ideal but as a feeling which motivates us to help others.
Lord, give us the wisdom to utter words that are gentle and tender, for tomorrow we may have to eat them.
It is when you are really living in the present  working, thinking, lost, absorbed in something you care about very much, that you are living spiritually.
Nothing in this world is so marvellous as the transformation that  soul undergoes when the light of faith descends upon the light o reason.
Anyone who stops learning is old, whether this happens at twenty o eighty. Anyone who keeps on learning not only remains young, but become constantly more valuable regardless of physical capacity.
Youth is not a time of life, it is a state of mind, it is not a matte of rosy cheeks, red lips and supple knees; it is a matter of the will,  quality of the imagination, a vigor of the emotions; it is the freshnes off the deep springs of life Youth means the temperamental predominance of courage over timidity of the appetite for adventure over the love of ease. This often exists i a man of sixty more than a boy of twenty. Nobody grows old merely by  number of years. We grow old by deserting our ideals Years may wrinkle the skin, but to give up enthusiasm wrinkles th soul. Worry, fear, self-distrust bows the heart and turns the spirit bac to dust. Whether sixty or sixteen, there is in every human being's hear the lure of wonder, the unfailing childlike appetite of what's next, an the joy of the game of living.
The Earth Praye We join with the earth and with each othe to bring new life in the land to restore the water to refresh the air We join with the earth and with each othe to renew the forests to care for the plant to protect the creatures We join with the earth and with each othe to recreate the human community to promote justice and peace to remember our children We join with the earth and with each other We join together as many and diverse expressions of one's loving mystery for the healing of the earth and the renewal of all life.
Someone has well said, 'Success is a journey, not a destination. Happiness is to be found along the way, not at the end of the road, fo then the journey is over and it is too late. Today, this hour, thi minute is the day, the hour, the minute for each of us to sense the fac that life is good, with all of its trails and troubles, and perhaps mor interesting because of them.
It is our responsibilities, not ourselves that we should take seriously.
The point of living, and of being an optimist is to be foolish enoug to believe the best is yet to come.
Though completely armed with knowledge and endowed with power, we ar blind and impotent in a world we have equipped and organized -- a worl of which we now fear the inextricable complexity.
We can all image care without wisdom, but not wisdom without care.
Since nothing is settled until it is settled right, no matter ho unlimited power a person may have, unless they exercises it fairly an justly their actions will return to plague them.
Human beings are perhaps never more frightened than when they ar convinced beyond doubt that they are right.
Any piece of knowledge I acquire today has a value at this momen exactly proportional to my skill to deal with it. Tomorrow, when I kno more, I recall that piece of knowledge and use it better.
Some people are so afraid to die that they never begin to live.
We might not be able to add many more years to our lives but mos of us can add plenty of life to our years.
If you want your children to turn out well, spend twice as much tim with them, and half as much money.
If you can't stand the heat, get out of the kitchen.
Go out into the woods and valleys, when your heart is rather harasse than bruised, and when you suffer from vexation more than grief. Then th trees all hold out their arms to you to relieve you of the burden of you heavy thoughts; and the streams under the trees glance at you as they ru by, and will carry away your trouble along with the fallen leaves.
Happy are they who have been able to learn the causes of things an have put under their feet all fear, inexorable fate, and the noisy strif of the hell of greed.
Love conquers all.
All you need is love.
The noblest motive is the public good.
They can because they believe they can.
Be neither a conformist or a rebel, for they are really the same thing. Find your own path, and stay on it.
Our whole civilization is based on a hypothetical future and the idioc of fortune-telling.
A multitude of laws in a country is like a great number of physicians, a sign of weakness and malady.
Doubt is not a pleasant state, but certainty is a ridiculous state.
Humility is the modesty of the soul. It is the antidote to pride.
I disapprove of what you say, but will defend to the death your right to say it.
If God did not exist, it would be necessary to invent him.
It is sad that being a good patriot often means being the enemy of th rest of mankind.
Judge a person by their questions rather than their answers.
No problem can withstand the assault of sustained thinking
Perfection is attained by slow degrees; it requires the hand of time.
The best is the enemy of the good.
The biggest reward for a think well done is to have done it.
The discovery of what is true and the practice of that which is good are the two most important aims of philosophy.
The only way to compel people to speak good of us is to do it.
There has never been a perfect government because people have passions and if they did not have passions, there would be no need fo government.
Work is often the father of pleasure.
Work spares us from three great evils: boredom, vice and need.
The congruence of past, future, and present is now.
Who of us is mature enough for offspring before the offspring themselve arrive? The value of marriage is not that adults produce children but th children produce adults.
Joy is not in things, it is in us.
Nothing motivates a person more than to see their boss putting in an honest days work.
No man or women is an island. To exist just for yourself is meaningless. You can achieve the most satisfaction when you feel related to some greater purpose in life, something greater than yourself.
Procrastination is the fear of success People procrastinate because they are afraid of the succes that they know will result if they move ahead now Because success is heavy, carries responsibility with it it is much easier to procrastinate and live on th 'someday I'll' philosophy.
There are two primary choices in life: to accept conditions as they exit, or accept the responsibility for changing them.
You cant do good if you dont feel good.
A physicists is an atoms way of knowing about atoms.
The first consideration a wise person fixeth upon is the great end of their creation; what it is, and wherein it consists; the next is of the most proper means to that end.
It is not true that nice guys finish last. Nice guys are winners befor the game ever starts.
Nations have no existence apart from their people. If every person i the world loved peace, every nation would love peace. If all people refuse to fight one another, nations could not fight one another.
But a mighty power and stronge Man from his throne has hurled For the hand that rocks the cradle, Is the hand that rules the world.
The world is a comedy to those who think and a tragedy to those wh feel.
To act with common sense according to the moment, is the best wisdom. I know and the best philosophy is to do ones duties, take the world as it comes submit respectfully to ones lot; bless the goodness that has given us so much happiness with it, whatever it is; and despise affection.
An intelligent plan is the first step to success. The person who plan knows where they are going, knows what progress they are making and has  pretty good idea when they will arrive. Planning is the open road to you destination. If you don't know where you are going, how can you expect t get there?
There are realities we all share, regardless of our nationality, language, or individual tastes. As we need food, so do we need emotional nourishment: love, kindness, appreciation, and support from others. We need to understand our environment and our relationship to it. We need to fulfil certain inner hungers: the need for happiness, for peace of mind; for wisdom.
Its not what you gather, but what you scatter that tells what kind of life you have lived.
The sages do not consider that making no mistakes is no blessing. They believe rather that the great virtue of a person lies in their ability to correct their mistakes and continually to make a new person of themselves.
Committing a great truth to memory is admirable; committing it to life is wisdom.
Greatness is not found in possessions, power, position, or prestige. It is discovered in goodness, humility, service and character.
The mediocre teacher tells       The good teacher explains       The superior teacher demonstrates       The great teacher inspires.
Will someone elses life be brighter tomorrow because of what you have done today?
The pessimist finds fault; the optimist discovers a remedy     The pessimist seeks sympathy; the optimist spreads cheer     The pessimist criticizes circumstances; the optimist changes conditions     The pessimist complains about the apple seeds; the optimist plants them     The pessimist imagines impending peril; the optimist sees signs of prosperity     The pessimist disparages; the optimist encourages     The pessimist creates loneliness; the optimist finds friends     The pessimist nibbles at the negative; the optimist is nourished by the positive     The pessimist builds barriers; the optimist removes roadblocks     The pessimist invents trouble; the optimist enriches the environment.
They always say that time changes things, but actually you have t change them yourself.
One cannot overestimate the power of a good rancorous hatred on the par of the stupid. The stupid have so much more industry and energy to expen on hating. They build it up like coral insects.
I'm very pleased with each advancing year. It stems back to when I wa forty. I was a bit upset about reaching that milestone, but an older frien consoled me. 'Don't complain about growing old -- many people don't hav that privilege.'
There is great work to be done. The foundations of the new world must be laid by those who have the courage to change the old; by those whose arteries are still soft and clean, whose minds are still active, and hearts still generous.
If wisdom and diamonds grew on the same tree we could soon tell how much people loved wisdom.
Excellence is to do a common thing in an uncommon way.
No person who continues to add something to the material, intellectua and moral well-being of the place in which they live is left long withou proper reward.
 The longer I live the more I am convinced that the one thing wort living for and dying for is the privilege of making someone more happy an more useful. No person who ever does anything to lift their fellows eve makes a sacrifice.
The world cares very little about what men or women know; it is wha people do that counts.
I am still determined to be cheerful and happy, in whatever situation  may be; for I have also learned from experience that the greater part o our happiness or misery depends upon our dispositions, and not upon ou circumstances.
I have learned from experience that the greater part of our happiness o misery depends on our dispositions and not on our circumstances.
The message I would give to young people is: Dont be the best in your class. If youre the best in your class youre in the wrong class.
Some day a child is going to sue its parents for being born. They wil say, my life is so awful with these terrible genetic defects and you jus callously didn't find out.
All great questions of politics and economics come down in the las analysis to the decisions and actions of individual men and women. They ar questions of human relations, and we ought always to think about them i terms of men and women -- the individual human beings who are involved i them. If we can get human relations on a proper basis, the statistics finance and all other complicated technical aspects of these questions wil be easier to solve.
Wisdom is the power that enables us to use knowledge for the benefit o ourselves and others.
Wisdom is the power to put our time and our knowledge to the proper use.
High ethical standards bring about efficient business methods.
The future is a concept -- it doesn't exist! There is no such thing a tomorrow! There never will be because time is always now. That's one of th things we discover when we stop talking to ourselves and stop thinking. W find there is only present, only an eternal now.
The greater the scientist, the more they are impressed with their ignorance of reality, and the more they realize that their laws and labels, descriptions and definitions, are the products of their won thought. They help them to use the world for purposes of their own devising rather than understand and explain it.
To know and love another human being is the root of all wisdom
If you think youre too small to make a difference, you never spent a night in a room with a single mosquito.
Tomorrow is the most important thing in life. Comes in to us at midnigh very clean. It's perfect when it arrives and it puts itself in our hands It hopes we've learnt something from yesterday.
Certainly all historical experience confirms the truth -- tha individuals would not have attained the possible unless time and again the had reached out for the impossible.
Every human being has four hungers; the hunger for loins, the hunger o the belly, the hunger of the mind and the hunger of the soul. You can ge by a long time on loins and the belly, but there is a good deal of evidenc that even the meanest of people eventually crave something for the mind an soul.
Failure is more frequently from want of energy than from want of capital.
If we work marble, it will perish; if we work upon brass, time wil efface it; if we rear temples, they will crumble into dust; but if we wor upon immortal minds and install into them just principles, we are the engraving upon tablets which no time will efface, but will brighten an brighten to all eternity.
It is not accumulated general experience per se that leads to wisdom, but in contrast, experiences that are difficult, morally challenging and require profundity.
It is the glorious prerogative of the empire of knowledge that what i gains it never loses. On the contrary, it increases by the multiple of it own power: all its ends become means; all its attainments help to ne conquests.
Justice is the great interest of the human race on earth. It is  ligament which holds civilized beings and civilized nations together.
Mind is the great level of all things; human thought is the process b which human ends are answered.
No government is respectable which is not just. Without unspotted purit of public faith, without sacred, public principle, fidelity and honor, n mere forms of government, no machinery of laws, can give dignity t political society.
Wisdom begins at the end.
Nowadays we think of revolution not as the solution to problems posed b current developments but as a miracle which releases us from the obligatio to solve these problems.
A true friend is someone who is there for you when they would rather be somewhere else.
Business is a conversation because the defining work of business is conversation  literally. And knowledge workers are simply those people whose job consists of having interesting conversations.
You want to know how to overcome despair? I will tell you. By helping others overcome despair.
The 'preferred future' -- an image of aspiration -- (is) a powerfu guidance mechanism ... When people plan present actions by workin backward from what is really desired, they develop energy, enthusiasm optimism and high commitment.
Youngsters and adults cannot learn if information is pressed into thei brains. You can teach only by creating interest, by creating an urge t know. Knowledge has to be sucked into the brain, not pushed into it. First one must create a state of mind that craves knowledge, interest an wonder.
An organizations ability to learn and translate that learning into action rapidly, is the ultimate competitive business advantage.
I am convinced that if the rate of change inside an institution is less that the rate of change outside, the end is in sight.
The real freedom of any individual can always be measured by the amoun of responsibilities which they must assume for their won welfare an security.
I don't believe in happiness; why should we expect to be happy? In suc a world as this, depression is rational, rage reasonable.
A right is not effectual by itself, but only in relation to th obligation to which it corresponds .... An obligation which goe unrecognised by anybody loses none of the full force of its existence.  right which goes unrecognised by anybody is not worth very much.
It is the business of the statesman to provide a decent burial for th past and to facilitate the birth of the future.
The school will teach children how to read, but the environment of th home must teach them what to read. The school can teach them how to thin but the home must teach them what to believe.
A federation of all humanity, together with a sufficient measure o social justice to ensure health, education and a rough equality o opportunity, would mean such a release and increase of human energy as t open a new phase in human history.
God damn you all: I told you so.
Human history becomes more and more a race between education an catastrophe.
In the scientific world I find just that disinterested devotion to grea ends that I hope will spread at last through the entire range of huma activity.
Our true nationality is mankind.
The past is but the beginning of the beginning, and all that is and has been is but the twilight of the dawn.
When a person realises their littleness, their greatness can appear.
Be honourable yourself if you wish to associate with honourable people.
Three things it is best to avoid: a strange dog, a flood and a man who thinks he is wise.
Do all the good you can By all the means you can In all the ways you can In all the places you can At all the times you can To all the people you can As long as ever you can.
There is no such things as conversation. It is an illusion. There are interesting monologues, that is all.
You're never too old to become younger.
Great occasions do not make heroes or cowards; they simply unveil the to the eyes of others. Silently and imperceptibly, as we wake or sleep, w grow strong, or we grow weak, and at last some crisis shows us what we hav become.
 A frivolous society can acquire dramatic significance only through wha its society destroys.
If only we'd stop trying to be happy we'd have a pretty good time.
Life is the only real counsellor; wisdom unfiltered through personal experience does not become part of the moral issue.
The best security against revolution is in the constant correction o abuses and the introduction of needed improvements. It is the neglect o timely repair that makes rebuilding necessary.
Its not differences that divide is; its our judgements about each other that do.
Its not the days in your life, but the life in your days that counts.
I wake up every morning determined both to change the world and have on hell of a good time. Sometimes this makes planning the day a littl difficult.
The past cannot be changed, the future is still in your power.
Whether people are burdened by power or enjoy power; whether they are trapped by responsibility or made free by it; whether they are moved by other people and oter forces or moves them  this is of the essence of leadership.
A little learning is not a dangerous thing to one who does not mistake it for a great deal.
I am not afraid of tomorrow, for I have seen yesterday and I love today.
Live for toady. Multitudes of people have failed to live for today. The have spent their lives reaching for the future. What they have had withi their grasp today they have missed entirely, because only the future ha intrigued them ... and the first thing they knew the future became the pas ... Too late had they come to that realization, and when finally it dawne upon them, they realised that life upon this earth was very fleeting, an they realised the truth of the observation that: 'A thousand years are a but a day.'
A race preserves its vigour so long as it harbours a real contras between what has been and what may be, and so long as it is nerved by th vigour to adventure beyond the safeties of the past. Without adventure civilization is in full decay.
In a living civilization there is always an element of unrest, fo sensitiveness to ideas means curiosity, adventure, change. Civilized orde survives on its merits and is transformed by its power of recognizing it imperfections.
It is the duty of the future to be dangerous.
It is the essence of life that it exists for its own sake.
No one who achieves success does so without acknowledging the help of others. The wise and confident acknowledge this help with gratitude.
The art of progress is to preserve order amid change and to preserv change amid order.
The major advances in civilization are processes that all but wreck th societies in which they occur.... Civilization advances by extending th number of important operations which we can perform without thinking abou them.
The only justification in the use of force is to reduce the amount o force necessary to be used.
We think in generalities, but we live in detail.
Wisdom alone is true ambitions aim, wisdom is the source of virtue and of fame; obtained with labour, for mankind employed, and then, when most you share it, best enjoyed.
The individual who cultivates grievances, and who is perpetuall exacting explanations of their assumed wrongs, can only be ignored, an left to the education of time and of development ... One does not argue o contend with the foul miasma that settles over stagnant water; one leave it and climbs to a higher region, where the air is pure and the sunshin fair.
It is provided in the essence of things that from any fruition of success, no matter what, shall come forth something to make a greater struggle necessary.
One thought ever at the fore That in the Divine Ship, the world breasting Time and Space All peoples of the globe together sail, sail the same voyage Are bound to the same destination.
Wisdom is not finally tested in the school. Wisdom cannot be passd from one having it to another not having it. Wisdom is of the soul, is not susceptible of proof, is it own proof.
The biggest difficulty with mankind today is that our knowledge has increased so much faster than our wisdom.
Even the strongest personality will regress and eventually may disintegrate if there is no incentive (other than threat of punishment) for the work they do. When there is no feeling to accomplishment, children fail to develop properly and old people rapidly decline.
In a real sense, then, the poet brought together past, present and future in one utterance. Their responsibility was great and their place in society honoured. Imagine.
The new science of complexity echoes the wisdom long passed down i poetic tradition. The way to build a poem or a lifelike and useful syste is to fold meaning into the simplest element and allow complexity to emerg from their natural self-generation.
The way we respond to criticism pretty much depends on the way we respond to praise. If praise humbles us, then criticism will build us up. But if praise inflates us, then criticism will crush us; and both responses lead to our defeat.
SOLITUD Laugh, and the world laughs with you Weep, and you weep alone For the sad old earth must borrow its mirth But has trouble enough of its own Sing, and the hills will answer Sigh, it is lost on the air The echoes bound to a joyful sound But shrink from voicing care Rejoice, and men will seek you Grieve, and they turn and go They want full measure of all your pleasure But they do not need your woe Be glad, and your friends are many Be sad, and you lose them all There are none to decline your nectared wine But alone you must drink life's gall Feast, and your halls are crowded Fast, and the world goes by Succeed and give, and it helps you live But no man can help you die There is room in the halls of pleasur For a long and lordly train But one by one we must all file o Through the narrow aisles of pain.
 So many gods, so many creeds So many paths that wind and wind While just the art of being kin Is all the sad world needs.
Talk happiness. The world is sad enough Without your woe. No path is wholly rough.
To sin by silence when we should protest makes cowards of us all.
Progress always involves risk. You cant steal second base and keep your foot on first.
There is a land of the living and a land of the dead, and the bridge is love.
Wisdom doesnt necessarily come with age. Sometimes ages just shows up all by itself.
A hundred years from now it will not matter what my bank account was, the sort of house I lived in, or the kind of car I drove   but the world may be different because I was important in the life of a child.
If you don't make mistakes, you're not working on high enough problems And that's a big mistake.
Education is an admirable thing, but it is well to remember from time t time that nothing that is worth knowing can be taught.
Seek the wisdom of the ages, but look at the world through the eyes of a child.
I am not young enough to know everything.
The well-bred contradict other people. The wise contradict themselves.
The world of achievement has always belonged to the optimist.
Proof of Trosky's farsightedness is that none of his predictions hav come true yet.
It is better to lay your life upon the alter of worthy endeavour than t luxuriate and perish as a weed.
Life is the acceptance of responsibilities or their evasion; it is  business of meeting obligations or avoiding them. To every person th choice is continually being offered, and by the manner of their choosin you may fairly measure them.
People are still responsible ... their success lies not with the star but with themselves. They must carry on the fight of self-correction an discipline. They must fight mediocrity as sin and live against th imperative of life's highest idea.
Fear of God builds churches, but love of God builds people.
Death is nature's way of saying 'Your table is ready.'
The greatest discovery of my generation is that a human being can alter their life by altering their attitude.
Our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate. Our deepest fear is tha we are powerful beyond measure. It is our light not our darkness tha frightens us. We ask ourselves. 'Who am I to be brilliant, gorgeous talented and fabulous?' Actually, who are you not to be? You are a child o God. Your playing small doesn't serve the world. There's nothin enlightened about shrinking so that other people won't feel insecure aroun you. We were all born to manifest the glory of God within us. It's not jus in some of us. It's in everyone. And as we let our own light shine, w unconsciously give other people permission to do the same. As we ar liberated from our own fear, our presence automatically liberates others.
Freedom is an indivisible word. If we want to enjoy it, and fight for i we must be prepared to extend it to everyone, whether they are rich o poor, whether they agree with us or not, no matter what their race or th colour of their skins.
All the seven deadly sins are self destroying, morbid appetites, but i their early stages at least; lust and gluttony, avarice and sloth know som gratification, while anger and pride have power, even though that powe eventually destroys itself. Envy is impotent, numbed with fear, neve ceasing in its appetite, and it knows no gratification, but endless sel torment. It has the ugliness of a trapped rat, which gnaws its own foot i an effort to escape.
Don't judge a person's character by their mistakes. Judge them by th way in which they deal with the mistakes.
If an idea cannot be expressed in terms of people, it is sure sign it i irrelevant to the real problems of life.
Our troubles ... arise from the fact that we do not know what we are an cannot agree on what we want to be. The primary cause of this intellectua failure is ignorance of our origins. We did not arrive on this planet a aliens. Humanity is part of nature, a species that evolved among othe species. The more closely we identify ourselves with the rest of life, th more quickly we will be able to discover the sources of human sensibilit and acquire the knowledge on which an enduring ethic, a sense of preferre direction can be built.
We are drowning in information, while starving for wisdom. The world henceforth will be run by synthesizers, people able to put together the right information at the right time, think critically about it, and make important choices wisely.
I would rather be a dupe occasionally, than suspect all the world of selfishness and dishonour; for then my life would be a burden to me.
However good our futures research may be, we shall never be able to escape from the ultimate dilemma that all our knowledge is about the past, and all our decisions are about the future.
No amount of sophistication is going to allay the fact that all your knowledge is about the past and all your decisions are about the future.
The public interest depends on private virtue.
Recognition for a job well done is high on the list of motivatin influences for all people; more important in many instances tha compensation itself. When someone is promoted, a promotion that everyon could see coming because of an excellent record, the entire department i stimulated. For it is clear, then, that promotions are based on merit.  promotion that seems to come out of the blue, which is always the case whe no one knows what the next person is doing, causes nothing but resentmen and a further weakening of the will to work.
Recognise the difference between having and living
Lay nothing much to heart; desire nothing too eagerly; rejoice no excessively, nor grieve too much for disasters; be not bent violently o any design; and above all let no worldly cares make you forget the concern of your soul.
Wisdom doesnt necessarily come with age. Sometimes age just shows up by itself.
All things come to them who wait -- provided they know what they ar waiting for.
Friendship is the only cement that will ever hold the world together.
Has justice ever grown in the soil of absolute power? Has not justic always come from the ... heart and spirit of the people who resist power?
I feel the responsibility of the occasion. Responsibility i proportionate to opportunity.
If you think about what you ought to do for other people, your characte will take care of itself.
I not only use all the brains I have, but all I can borrow.
Liberty never came from the government. Liberty has always come from th subjects of government. The history of liberty is the history o resistance. The history of liberty is a history of the limitation o governmental power, not the increase of it.
Provision for others is a fundamental responsibility of human life.
Those that will not command their thoughts will soon lose the command o their actions.
You are not here merely to make a living. You are here in order to enable the world to live more amply, with greater vision, with a finer spirit of hope and achievement. You are here to enrich the world, and you impoverish yourself if you forget the errand.
Theres no future in spending our present worrying about our past.
Real intelligence is a creative use of knowledge, not merely a accumulation of facts. The slow thinker who can finally come up with a idea of their own is more important to the world than a walkin encyclopaedia who hasn't learned how to use information productively.
I don't think of myself as a poor deprived ghetto girl who made good.  think of myself as somebody who from an early age knew I was responsibl for myself, and I had to make good.
I think education is power. I think that being able to communicate wit people is power. One of my main goals on the planet is to encourage peopl to empower themselves.
My philosophy is that not only are you responsibl for your life but doing the best at this momen puts you in the best place for the next moment.
The greatest discovery of all time is that a person can change their future by merely changing their attitude.
Turn your wounds into wisdom
When I look into the future, it's so bright it burns my eyes.
Creativity is the retention throughout life of something that belong properly to infant experience: the ability to create the world .... B creative living I mean not getting killed or annihilated all the time b compliance or by reacting to the world that impinges; I mean seein everything afresh all the time .... When we are surprised at ourselves w are being creative, and we find we can trust our own unexpecte originality.
Human beings are not animals; they are animals plus a wealth of fantasy psyche, soul, or inner world potential or what-ever you will.
It is creative perception more than anything else that makes th individual feel that life is worth living.
Our power to think things out about human nature ... is liable to b blocked by our fear of the full implication of what we find.
When you have assembled all your facts it is like an oil lamp where yo have fashioned, filled and trimmed it, but it will give you no illuminatio unless you light it.
A hundred years from now it will not matter what my bank account was, the sort of house I lived in, or the kind of car I drove . But the world may be different because I was important in the life of a child.
Life is a school. There is something new to learn wherever we may be wherever we go, wherever we turn.
Of one thing I am certain, we are not here in order to have a goo time.
The limits of my language mean the limits of my world.
No amount of money or recognition can compensate you if you are not doing your lifes passionate, creative work.
No one has learned the meaning of life until they have surrendered thei ego to the service of their fellows.
Women have always been the guardians of wisdom and humanity which make them natural, but usually secret rulers. The time has come for them to rul openly, but together with and not against men.
We all have ability, the difference is how we use it.
Be Be The past is dead Tomorrow is not yet born Be today Today Be with every nerve With every fibre With every drop of your red blood Be Be!
We argue with ourselves: 'I should be doing something useful. But th truth is I can't do anything useful if there's no I to do it.' ... That i what going into the chrysalis is all about -- undergoing a metamorphosis i order one day to stand up and say I am.
So great has been the endurance, so incredible the achievement, that a long as the sun keeps a set course in heaven, it would be foolish t despair of the human race.
To enjoy freedom we have to control ourselves.
If all the good people were clever And all the clever people were good The world would be nicer than eve We thought that it possibly could But somehow, 'tis seldom or neve The two hit it off as they should The good are so harsh to the clever The clever so rude to the good!
Bliss was it in that dawn to be alive, But to be young was very heaven!
Dust as we are, the immortal spirit grow Like harmony in music; there is a dar Inscrutable workmanship that reconcile Discordant elements, makes them cling togethe In one society.
How people undervalue the power of simplicity; but it is the real key t the heart.
Life is divided into three terms  that which was, which is, and which will be. Let us learn from the past to profit by the present, and from the present to live better in the future.
Not in Utopia -- subterranean fields,  Or some secreted island, Heaven knows where But in the very world, which is the worl Of all of us, -- the place where in the en We find our happiness, or not at all!
Poetry is the breath and finer spirit of all knowledge; it is th impassioned expression which is in the countenance of all Science.
That best portion of a good person's life; their little, nameless, unremembered acts of kindness and of love.
The child is the father to the man.
The past, present and future are strung together, as it were, on the thread of the wish that runs through them.
The wiser mind mourns less for what age takes awa than what it leaves behind.
To her fair works did Nature lin The human soul that through me ran And much it grieved my heart to thin What Man has made of Man.
Wisdom is ofttimes nearer when we stoo than when we soar ...
With an eye made quiet by the power of harmony and the deep power o joy, we see into the heart of things.
The real tragedy of life is not being limited to one talent, but in th failure to use the one talent.
The thing always happens that you really believe in; and the belief in a thing makes it happen.
True religion is the life we live, not the creed we profess, and some day will be recognised by quality and quantity, and not by brand.
While culture and technology are cumulative, innate intelligence is not.
Freedom dies with every individual; it is not reborn with thei successors; it must be achieved anew, generation after generation.
If peace is to come, it must be peace within your own mind and heart. I hatred is to die, you must scotch it within yourself. If intelligence is t triumph, you must be intelligent. There is no other pathway, no othe salvation.
If we go far enough back into basic economics, we are eventuall reminded that the only known way of producing money initially is by labour somebody has to work with their brains or back, and that capital is nothin more than the accumulation of money which has been paid to reward th person for their labour.
When asked 'What can we do to get a better world?' Albert Einstei replied: 'You have to have better people'.
The sages do not consider that making no mistake is a blessing. The believe, rather, that the great virtue of a person lies in their ability t correct their mistakes and continually to make a new person of themselves.
Education is not the filling of a pail, but the lighting of a fire.
It would need a great deal of wisdom to know what it is we want to know.
Land of Heart's Desire. Where beauty has no ebb, decay no flood But joy is Wisdom. Time an endless song.
Think like a wise person but express yourself like the common people.
All values in this world are more or less questionable, but the mos important thing in life is human kindness.
Giving of yourself, learning to be tolerant, giving recognition an approval to others, remaining flexible enough to mature and learn -- yield happiness, harmony, contentment and productivity. These are the qualitie of a rich life, the bounteous harvest of getting along with people.
Life is the greatest bargain; We get it for nothing.
Pearls around the neck - stones upon the heart.
When you leave this world, material riches will be left behind, bu every good that you have done will go with you Life should be chiefly service. Without that ideal, the intelligence tha God has given you is not reaching out towards its goal. When in service yo forget the little self, you will feel the big Self of Spirit.
Education is the power to think clearly, the power to act well in the worlds work, and the power to appreciate life.
Everyone should learn to do one thing supremely well because they lik it, and one thing supremely well because they detest it.
Be wise to-day; 'tis madness to defer.
Nature revolves, but the human race advances.
The person who can put themselves in the place of others, who ca understand the workings of their minds, need never worry about what th future has in store for them.
There is a single reason why 99 out of 100 average business people neve become leaders. That is their unwillingness to pay the price o responsibility. By the price of responsibility I mean hard driving continual work ... the courage to make decisions, to stand the gaff ... th scourging honesty of never fooling yourself about yourself. You travel th road to leadership heavily laden. While the nine-to-five o'clock worke takes their ease, you are toiling upward through the night. Laboriously yo extend your mental frontiers. Any new effort, the psychologists say, wear a new groove in the brain. And the grooves that lead to the heights are no made between nine and five. They are burned in by midnight oil.
If you wish to know what a person is, place them in authority.
Besides the noble art of getting things done, there is the noble art of leaving things undone. The wisdom of life consists in the elimination of non-essentials.
Simplicity is the outward sign and symbol of depth of thought.
Sometimes it is more important to discover what one cannot do, than wha one can do.
There is nothing more beautiful in this world than a healthy wise ol person.
The secret of contentment is knowing how to enjoy what you have, and to be able to lose all desire for things beyond your reach.
Fools talk; cowards are silent; wise men listen.
The Way is long - let us go together The Way is difficult - let us help each other The Way is joyful - let us share it The Way is ours alone - let us go in love The Way grows before us - let us begin.
One should seek virtue for its sake and not from hope or fear, or an external motive. It is in virtue that happiness consists, for virtue is th state of mind which tends to make the whole of life harmonious.
The goal of life is living in agreement with nature.
Before enlightenmen chopping wood carrying water After enlightenmen chopping woo carrying water.
The finger points at the moon. Do not be distracted by the finger observe the moon.
Sitting in front of his master, the student posed the question, 'All th mountains, rivers, lakes, the earth, the sun, the moon and the stars, wher do they come from?' In answer, the master replied, 'Where does you question come from?'
The goal of life is living in agreement with nature.
I do not know whether I was then a man dreaming I was a butterfly, o whether I am now a butterfly dreaming I am a man.
Nothing can stop the person with the right mental attitude from achieving their goal; nothing on earth can help the person with the wrong mental attitude>
You can have everything in life you want if youll just help enough other people to get what they want.
Everything in the universe is created from something, which in turn is created from nothing.
All true educators since the time of Socrates and Plato have agreed tha the primary object of education is the attainment of inner harmony, or t put it into more up-to-date language, the integration of the personality Without such an integration learning is no more than a collection o scraps, and the accumulation of knowledge becomes a danger to menta health.
Our task as we grow older in a rapidly advancing science, is to retai the capacity of joy in discoveries which correct older ideas, and to lear from our pupils as we teach them.
The only interest in living comes from believing in life, from lovin life and using all the power of your intelligence to know it better.
One of the principle purposes of the modern enterprise is the expansio of knowledge -- not knowledge for its own sake, but knowledge that comes t reside at the core of what it means to be productive.
Science creates the future without knowing what the future will be. I science knew tomorrow's discovery they would make it.
There are so many ways to wisdom and to the heart We have much to do together Let us do it in wisdom and love and joy Let us make this the human experience.