Never make troubles of trifles.
Every ass thinks himself worthy to stand with the king's horses.
Every one has a penny to spend at a new ale-house.
A jack of all trades is master of none.
You cannot know wine by the barrel.
Every light is not the sun.
Wedding and ill-wintering tame both man and beast.
Hell is paved with good intentions.
Whatever will be, will be.
Time cures sorrow.
Fancy goes a long way.
A friend at court is better than a penny in the purse.
When children stand quiet they have done some harm.
High winds blow on high hills.
Money is the root of all evil.
Two wrongs don't make a right.
One man's junk is another man's treasure.
Do well, and have well.
To err is human, to forgive, divine.
A cold May and a wind.
"Welcome death," quoth the rat, when the trap fell down.
Speech is the picture of the mind.
To a good spender God is the treasurer.
Who would keep a cow when he may have a bottle of milk for a penny.
He that will not go over the stile must be thrust through the gate.
A little pot is soon hot.
A pennyworth of ease is worth a penny.
He that will thrive must rise at five.
When wine sinks, words swim.
Nothing like leather.
Age before honesty.
You can't win them all.
To-morrow comes never.
To a crazy ship all winds are contrary.
Children are poor men's riches.
The worst wheel of a cart creaks most.
Birchen twigs break no ribs.
Gold alone makes not prosperity.
Give it plenty of elbow grease.
It takes one to know one.
There's never enough where nothing's left.
Feed sparingly, and defy the physician.
He who is not handsome at twenty, nor strong at thirty, nor wise at forty, nor rich at fifty, will never be handsome, strong, rich, or wise.
This world is nothing except it tend to the next.
Make not thy friend too cheap to thee, nor thyself to thy friend.
Hold not with the hounds and run with the hare.
A mouse, in time, may bite in two a cable.
Self do, self have.
Wine is a turncoat, first a friend, then an enemy.
That which is easily done is soon believed.
You win some, you lose some.
As sound as a nut.
An old sack wanteth much patching.
The mob has many heads, but no brains.
He who spends more than he should, Shall not have to spend when he would.
You'll come home in another tune.
Put a snake in your bosom, and when it is warm it will sting you.
A man of words and not of deeds, Is like a garden full of weeds.
Rain from east, Two days at least.
When knaves fall out, true men come by their goods.
A generous confession disarms slander.
They look one way and row another.
When wine is in, wit is out.
A plant often removed cannot thrive.
The hindermost dog may catch the hare.
He that longs most lacks most.
He that lives not well one year sorrows for it seven.
They laugh the loudest who have least to lose.
Are rushes and reeds.
Of all the crafts honesty is the master-craft.
It is an ill bird that defiles its own nest.
If wishes were thrushes, beggars would eat birds.
Calm weather in June sets corn in tune.
God never measures men by inches.
The fish will bite least.
Do all the good you talk of; but talk not of all the good you do.
Those are wise who learn caution from their own experience; but those are wiser who learn it from the experience of others.
As the twig is bent the tree's inclined.
The squeaky wheel gets the grease.
Wounds may heal, but not those made by ill words.
Account not that work slaver.
Bachelors, before you marry, Have a house wherein to tarry.
Old men are twice children.
The wife is the key of the house.
Many a one for land, Takes a fool by the hand.
A little knowledge is a dangerous thing.
Care's no cure.
Whoso lacketh a stock, his gain's not worth a chip.
No longer pipe, no longer dance.
What soberness conceals, drunkenness reveals.
He would not lend his knife to the devil to stab himself.
A small pack suits a small pedlar.
The best laid plans of mice and men (often go astray).
Children should hear, see, and say nothing.
A sceptre is one thing, a ladle another.
Harm watch, harm catch.
Hunger is the finest sauce.
Many a good cow hath had a bad calf.
Murder will out.
September blow soft, Till the fruit's in the loft.
A small leak will sink a great ship.
Many words will not fill a bushel.
Sluts are good enough to make slovens' pottage.
That which is bred in the bone will never be out of the flesh.
You get what you pay for.
The nearer the church the farther from God.
To say well, it is well, but to do well is better.
Counsel is never out of date.
Feather by feather the goose is plucked.
God healeth, and the physician hath the thanks.
Wit is the lightning of the mind.
April and May are the keys of the year.
I can see as far into a millstone as the picker.
Speak softly and carry a big stick.
As good to be out of the world as out of the fashion.
"He that wolde not when he might, He shall not when he wold-a..
Where are the crumbs there are the chickens.
Talking pays no toll.
The ignorant think all things wrong which they cannot understand.
An ounce of knowledge may be worth a pound of comfort.
Never sigh but send.
There is nothing certain in this life but death and taxes.
Much would have more, and lost all.
Woe follows wickedness.
A dog is a man's best friend.
Who hath aching teeth, hath ill tenants.
Weight and measure take away strife.
The evil wound is cured, but not the evil name.
Charity begins at home.
Great minds think alike.
Discretion is the better part of valor.
Where there is smoke there is fire.
'Tis good fish if it were but caught.
Every tide has its ebb.
A bird can roost upon but one branch.
Next to love, quietness.
Barley straw's good fodder when the cow gives water.
A penny saved is a penny earned.
First creep and then go.
Fair faces need no paint.
Their folly pleads the privilege of wealth.
A bald head is soon shaven.
Do as you are bidden and you'll never be to blame.
Set a thief to take a thief.
When thy neighbour's house is on fire, be careful of thine own.
He had enough to keep the wolf from the door.
Spare the rod, spoil the child.
Cut and come again.
Ask but enough, and you may lower as you list.
Who depends upon another man's table often dines late.
Laws, like spiders' webs, are wrought, Large flies break through, the small are caught.
Sit in your place, and none can make you rise.
To take the wrong sow by the ear.
Gems must not be valued by what they are set in.
Wisdom rides upon the ruins of folly.
Many speak much that cannot speak well.
He who would have a hare for breakfast must hunt over night.
When poverty comes in at the door, friendship leaps out of the window.
Spoil not the ship for a penn'orth of tar.
One good turn deserves another.
Do as you would be done by.
Short reckonings are soon cleared.
That's where the laugh comes in.
Ships fear fire more than water.
Rules were meant to be broken.
It's useless saving at the spigot and spending at the bung-hole.
Nothing dries up sooner than tears.
Long absent, soon forgotten.
Lovers live on love, as larks on leeks.
I had not cut my wise teeth.
Better be the head of an ass than the tail of a horse.
Make much of one, good men are scarce.
Some are wise, and some are otherwise.
He that is born to be hanged shall never be drowned.
Great cry and little wool.
Put your money where your mouth is.
Adversity flattereth no man.
He stands in his own light.
'Tis the early bird catches the worm.
When a musician hath forgot his note, he makes as though a crumb stuck in his throat.
Absence makes the heart grow fonder.
A feast is not made of mushrooms only.
Birds of a feather flock together.
Look at the same in Jun.
A swarm of bees in May is worth a load of hay, But a swarm of bees in July is not worth a fly.
Better it is to meet a bear bereaved of her whelps, than a fool in his folly.
No pains, no profit.
Little minds, like weak liquors, are soon soured.
Man reigns and woman rules.
When the tree falls every man runs with his hatchet.
Good and quickly seldom meet.
Simon Noland, clown, is a better style and title tha.
He wants to have a finger in every pie.
Oysters are not good in the month that hath not an R in it.
There's no place like home.
Desperate cuts must have desperate cures.
The exception that proves the rule.
He who hath no ill fortune, is dazed with good.
He that runs in the night stumbles.
Those who live in glass houses should not throw stones.
If it were not for hope, the heart would break.
Everything would live.
Agree, for law is costly.
Lowly sit and be richly warm.
A bad day never hath a good night.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
It's better to be lucky than wise.
No rest for the weary.
For want of a nail the shoe is lost; for want of a shoe the horse is lost; for want of a horse the rider is lost.
Rolling in cash he can't use, like a cat in a corn-bin.
The fish will bite best.
Love and lordship never like friendship.
Never carry two faces under one hat.
Every path hath a puddle.
Where God hath His church the devil will have his chapel.
England is the Paradise of women.
He's Tom Tell-troth.
Haste trips up its own heels.
As patient as Job.
Eating and drinking takes away one's appetite.
He that will steal an egg will steal an ox.
The greater truth, the greater libel.
Old young, old long.
He that tells his wife news is but newly married.
When the sloe-tree is as white as a sheet, Sow your barley, whether it be dry or wet.
Doing nothing is doing ill.
Better a fortune in her than on her.
If you want a thing done right, do it yourself.
Christmas comes but once a year.
Better be idle than ill employed.
No man knows better what good is than he that has an endured evil.
That's but an empty purse that's full of other men's money.
Every man is either a fool or a physician after thirty years of age.
They who don't intend to pay, Will promise payment any day.
Better untaught than ill-taught.
Sticks and stones may break my bones, but words (sometimes 'names') will never hurt me. .
Every man is the architect of his fortune.
He who is born to be hanged will never be drowned.
Hasty resolutions seldom speed well.
A tradesman who gets not loseth.
One hour's sleep before midnight is worth two hours after.
He is not wise that is not wise for himself.
Where there's a will there's a way.
An empty purse fills the face with wrinkles.
It's a bad cause that none dare speak in.
Great spenders are bad lenders.
A fool may give a wise man counsel.
Fiddler's fare; meat, drink, and money.
A word is enough to the wise.
Self love's a mote in every man's eye.
Cloudy mornings turn to clear evenings.
He that goeth out with often loss, At last comes home by Weeping Cross.
No sweat, no sweet.
A man may lose his goods for want of demanding them.
When things get to the worst, they'll mend.
Keep a thing seven years, and you will find a use for it.
Pride goes before, and shame follows after.
Old age is honourable.
Where it is weakest there the thread breaketh.
You need not go forth [_to fish_].
Many a true word is spoken in jest.
Measure twice, cut once.
March grass never did good.
It is more painful to do nothing than something.
Good words without deed.
As good as gold.
Grief pent up will burst the heart.
He robs Peter to pay Paul.
Thinkers govern toilers.
Almost was never hanged.
Change of fortune is the lot of life.
Misery loves company.
He is most loved that hath most bags.
If the ash before the oak comes out, There has been, or there will be drought.
Keep some till more come.
He that would learn to pray let him go to sea.
One swallow does not make a summer.
One never loseth by doing good turns.
Try your friend before you trust him.
An old dog barks not in vain.
Never trouble trouble till trouble troubles you.
Poverty parteth good fellowship.
Great marks are soonest hit.
It's not how long, but how well, we live.
At a great bargain make a great pause.
A good dog deserves a good bone.
It's never too late to change.
He that hath no money needeth no purse.
Comparisons are odious.
You can lead a horse to water, but you can't make him drink.
As good twenty as nineteen.
Is still to be doing from morning to night.
Soft words hurt not the mouth.
Don't throw the baby out with the bathwater.
If wishes would bide, beggars would ride.
A bribe will enter without knocking.
Willows are weak, yet they bend other wood.
He that despiseth small things shall fall by little and little.
Out of the frying-pan into the fire.
Vows made in storms are forgotten in calms.
A mere scholar a mere ass.
A leopard cannot change its spots.
Of sufferance comes ease.
Honesty is the best policy; but he who acts on this principle is not an honest man.
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
Company in distress, Makes trouble less.
February makes a bridge, and March breaks it.
Money is more easily made than made use of.
The wife that expects to have a good nam.
A woman's mind and winter wind often change.
Love and a cough cannot be hid.
The cure is worse than the disease.
Soft words butter no parsnips.
Little boats must keep the shore.
Experience is the best teacher.
When the wind's in the south, It blows the bait into the fishes' mouth.
Don't make a mountain out of a mole-hill.
Win first, lose last.
When God wills, all winds bring rain.
Once well done is twice done.
Little strokes fell great oaks.
Blessed be St. Stephen.
If things were to be done twice, all would be wise.
Shall be rich when he is buried.
If you would fruit have, You must bring the leaf to the grave.
The full stomach loatheth the honeycomb, but to the hungry every bitter thing is sweet.
Better go to bed supperless than to rise in debt.
Love lives in cottages as well as in courts.
Older and wiser.
Many without punishment, none without sin.
One story is good until another's told.
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.
None ever yet got fat on windfalls.
The customer is always right.
The loquacity of fools is a warning to the wise.
Wilful waste makes woeful want.
Good watch prevents misfortune.
Why, butter would not melt in his mouth.
Much is expected where much is given.
Don't cut off your nose to spite your face.
As you make your bed so you must lie on it.
Angry men seldom want woe.
Wound more than swords.
What the eye does not see the heart does not grieve for.
Men dream in courtship but in wedlock wake.
Though the sun shines, leave not your cloak at home.
A growing youth hath a wolf in his stomach.
When the cat's away the mice will play.
Ever drunk, ever dry.
Crooked logs make straight fires.
He that makes a good war makes a good peace.
No cross, no crown.
Don't cry over spilt milk.
Fair words butter no parsnips.
Modesty is the handmaid of virtue.
Who sows in May gets little that way.
Poverty breeds strife.
He that waits for a dead man's shoes may go long enough barefoot.
Fancy may bolt bran and think it flour.
November take flail, Let ships no more sail.
Scorning is catching.
Hunger makes short devotion.
Cowards are always cruel.
Will without reason is blind.
Old saws speak the truth.
If wishes were horses, beggars would ride.
Every man to his trade.
The finest shoe often hurts the foot.
He that buys land buys many stones, He that buys flesh buys many bones, He that buys eggs buys many shells, He that buys ale buys nothing else.
Better go about than fall into the ditch.
Touch a galled horse, and he will wince.
So many mists in March you see, So many frosts in May will be.
The mouse that hath but one hole is easily taken.
With stomach, wife, and conscience keep on good terms.
August dry and warm, Harvest doth no harm.
Pride comes before a fall.
After dinner sit awhile, after supper walk a mile.
Some rain, some rest.
Two in distress make sorrows less.
When the well is dug it is easy enough to pump.
Love me little, love me long.
He had need rise betimes that would please everybody.
One tongue is enough for a woman.
There's no joy without alloy.
Let sleeping dogs lie.
God reacheth us good things with our own hands.
A good horse often wants a good spur.
Cold of complexion, good of condition.
Where the will is ready, the feet are light.
When ill luck falls asleep, let nobody wake her.
There's no fool like an old fool.
Man does not live by bread alone.
Most take all.
Hungry flies bite sore.
Foxes, when they cannot reach the grapes, say they are not ripe.
Enough is as good as a feast.
Don't lock the stable door after the horse is gone.
That is true which all men say.
Love me, love my dog.
Fall not out with a friend for a trifle.
An old doctor, a young lawyer.
Such a beginning, such an end.
Love is the touchstone of virtue.
One can never have too much of a good thing.
March wind and May sun, Make clothes white and maids dun.
Cheese it is a peevish elf, It digests all things but itself.
One may see day at a little hole.
The lion's not half so fierce as he's painted.
A thousand pounds and a pottle of hay is all one thing at doomsday.
There is a tide in the affairs of man which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune.
A wise man changes his mind; a fool never.
In the end things will mend.
A good beginning makes a good ending.
A broken leg is not healed by a silk stocking.
What! keep a dog and bark myself.
Don't cry out before you're hurt.
The horse thinks one thing, and he that rides him another.
As clear as mud.
Though the cat winks awhile, yet sure she is not blind.
He that runs fastest gets the prize.
First things first.
In the forehead and the eye, The picture of the mind doth lie.
He that hath a good harvest may be content with some thistles.
In wiving and thriving men should take counsel of all the world.
Lips however rosy must be fed.
Physician heal thyself.
The offender never pardons.
Happy is the bride the sun shines on, And the corpse the rain rains on.
Many kiss the child for the nurse's sake.
As you brew, so shall you bake.
Between a woman's yes and no, There is not room for a pin to go.
Keeping from falling is better than helping up.
You can't take it with you.
A fair face may hide a foul heart.
If the shoe fits, wear it.
A Saturday's moo.
Once bitten, twice shy.
Every one basteth the fat hog, while the lean one burneth.
Never fish in troubled waters.
Who hath spice enough may season his meat as he pleaseth.
Reconcile yourself to present trials, the future may bring worse.
To forget a wrong is the best revenge.
Old fools are the worst of fools.
Stretch not your fee.
All are not friends that speak us fair.
Temper the tongue.
He that reckons without his host must reckon again.
A story never loses by re-telling.
With what measure ye mete it shall be measured to you again.
Over haste makes certain waste.
Give a dog a bone in his mouth, and you may kick him and he can't bite.
The best fish are near the bottom.
There's as good fish in the sea as were ever caught.
Time tries all.
'Tis the second blow that makes a fray.
Where we least think, there goeth the hare away.
God help the rich, the poor can beg.
A cat may look at a king.
Cruelty is a tyrant always attended by fear.
Maidens must be seen and not heard.
Don't stop the plough to catch a mouse.
Youth will have its swing.
Mischiefs come by the pound and go away by the ounce.
People are sometimes better contented full than fasting.
As the fool thinks, so the bell chinks.
Possession is nine-tenths of the law.
The early bird catches the worm.
Too many cooks spoil the broth.
Knowledge, like physic, is more plague than profit, if it arrives too late.
Strike while the iron is hot.
Humphrey Hadland, gent.
Wine is the master's, but the goodness is the drawer's.
Hunger will break through stone walls.
Easy does it.
He that hath nothing is not contented.
No one knows the weight of another's burden.
Rome was not built in a day.
Yorkshire fashion--every man pay his share.
Pull down your hat on the wind side.
The young suckers drain the old tree.
The tongue talks at the head's cost.
Love thy neighbour, but pull not down thy hedge.
Store is no sore.
A whet is no let [hindrance].
A cold May, Plenty of corn and hay.
Don't judge a book by its cover.
A bit in the morning is better than nothing all day.
No man loves his fetters, though of gold.
No striving against the stream.
Knavery may serve for a turn, but honesty is best in the long run.
You needn't lock the stable door when the steed is stolen.
Like will to like.
When the cat winketh, little wots the mouse what the cat thinketh.
They talk of Christmas so long that it comes.
Let your purse be your master.
According to the old proverb.
No one is a fool always; every one sometimes.
The more the merrier; the fewer the better cheer.
If you can't lick 'em, join 'em.
We can't all be top sawyers.
Like a barber's chair, fit for every buttock.
Good things come in small packages.
Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.
Two wrongs will not make a right.
Children are certain cares, but very uncertain comforts.
Time and tide tarry for no man.
Appearances can be deceiving.
Blood is thicker than water.
Cold hands, warm heart.
Practice makes perfect.
Lightning never strikes twice in the same place.
Be not weary of well-doing.
Fools build houses, and wise men buy them.
There it will stick to the end of May.
Brag's a good dog, but that he hath lost his tail.
Many kinsfolk, few friends.
"Sour grapes," as the fox said when he could not reach them.
Life is half spent before we know what it is.
He who stays in the valley will never get over the hill.
What God will, no frost can kill.
Wool sellers know wool buyers.
When the cuckoo comes to the bare thorn, Sell your cow and buy your corn, But when she comes to a full bit, Sell your corn, and buy your sheep.
Care will kill a cat.
Spend not where you may save; spare not where you must spend.
He that hath a trade hath an estate.
Give neither advice nor salt until you are asked for it.
Quick at meat, quick at work.
A good wife's a prize.
Neighbour-quart is good quart.
Everything hath an end, and a pudding hath two.
The clock goes as it pleases the clerk.
Here today, gone tomorro.
Hearts may agree though heads differ.
After cheese comes nothing.
The receiver is as bad as the thief.
Where bad's the best, naught must be the choice.
Make not a toil of your pleasure.
He dances well to whom fortune pipes.
Share and share alike.
There's a sucker born every minute.
Better an empty house than a bad tenant.
Never trust yourself out of your depth till you can swim.
Perseverance kills the game.
Poverty parts friends.
Many go for wool and come back shorn.
The morning sun never lasts a day.
The more women look in their glasses, the less they look to their houses.
A merry companion on the road is as good as a nag.
One rotten apple spoils the whole barrel.
Two heads are better than one.
A cold April a barn will fill.
A green winter makes a fat churchyard.
As the old cock crows so crows the young.
Make the vine poor, and it will make you rich.
Take time by the forelock.
Burn not your candle at both ends at once.
Catch that catch may.
Opportunity lingers sometimes.
Talk of the devil and he'll be sure to appear.
Frugality makes an easy chair for old age.
There's ne'er a why, but there's a wherefore.
While the grass grows the steed starves.
The merry month of May.
He knows not a hawk from a hand-saw.
Roses, mind you, have thorns.
Poverty makes a man acquainted with strange bed-fellows.
Jests, like sweetmeats, are often sour sauce.
Up a creek without a paddle.
Tell that tale to a deaf man.
You cannot eat your cake and have it.
Experience is a dear school, but it is the only one we are apt to learn in.
Tell me what company you keep, and I will tell you who you are.
What your glass tells you will not be told by counsel.
Too far east is west.
Faint praise is disparagement.
The beggar is never out of his way.
No sunshine but hath some shadow.
A drunken night makes a cloudy morning.
Kindness will always conquer.
So many frosts in March, so many in May.
Discreet women have neither eyes nor ears.
Few people are out of the reach of slander.
The abundance of money ruins youth.
Children and fools speak the truth.
Pay as you go.
A man can do more than he can.
High places have their precipices.
One picture is worth a thousand words.
March many weathers.
Soldiers in peace are like chimneys in summer.
You may draw him which way you will, with a twine thread.
War, hunting, and law, are as full of trouble as pleasure.
He must stoop that hath a low door.
Wit bought is twice taught.
When the head aches, all the body is the worse.
Empty vessels make the greatest sound.
He deserves not the sweet that will not taste the sour.
So we have the chink, we'll bear the stink.
As blind as a bat.
Blushing is virtue's colour.
The bait goes in their mouth.
Losers are always in the wrong.
He was born with a silver spoon in his mouth.
Death keeps no calendar.
A man is not so soon healed as hurt.
Trust in God, and keep your powder dry.
The longest liver dies at last.
He that will not be counselled cannot be helped.
He covers me with his wings, and bites me with his bill.
Increaseth your store.
Through thick and thin.
Better be alone than in bad company.
Salmon and sermon have their season in Lent.
I'm too old a bird to be caught by chaff.
Old foxes need no tutors.
He that revealeth his secret maketh himself a slave.
If youth knew what age will crave, It sure would strive to get and save.
Raise no more spirits than you can conjure down.
Keep from the anger of a great man.
The world was never so dull but if one won't another will.
The greatest burdens are not the gainfullest.
Better late than never.
Good words cool more than cold water.
That penny is well spent that saves a groat.
Love is blind.
Diligence is a good patrimony.
Jack of all trades, and master of none.
Cut your coat according to your cloth.
He measures your corn by his bushel.
Bear and forbear.
Be a good husband, and you will get a penny to spend, a penny to lend, and a penny for a friend.
Drunken folk often speak truth.
A place for everything and everything in its place.
Better three hours too soon than a minute too late.
If the mountain will not go to Mahomet, let Mahomet go to the mountain.
He that strikes with the sword shall be beaten with the scabbard.
Morning is the time for study.
Better wise than wealthy.
He loseth his thanks who promiseth and delayeth.
He that sends mouths sends meat.
Crafty evasions save not the truth.
A soft answer turneth away wrath.
Wise men care not for what they cannot have.
He that would the daughter win, Must with the mother first begin.
The balance distinguishes not between gold and lead.
A crow is never the whiter for washing herself often.
Walls have ears.
Truth is stranger than fiction.
Poverty is the mother of health.
He that is thrown would ever wrestle.
Look to the cow, and the sow, and the wheat mow, and all will be well enow.
Two things you won't fret o'er, If you're a wise man-.
Carefully spend, and God will send.
Little birds may peck a dead lion.
Riches are like muck, which stink in a heap, but spread abroad make the earth fruitful.
As great a pity to see a woman weep, as to see a goose go barefoot.
A rugged stone grows smooth from hand to hand.
Unminded, unmoaned.
What you see is what you get.
It is good to be merry at meat.
Valour that parleys is near yielding.
A Scotch mist will wet an Englishman through to the skin.
Proverbs are the texts of common life.
On Candlemas day you must have half your straw and half your hay.
There is no rule without an exception.
Never split timber against the grain.
All things are soon prepared in a well-ordered house.
Corn is cleansed with the wind, and the soul with chastening.
He lies like an epitaph.
Knaves and fools divide the world.
The lower millstone grinds as well as the upper.
An unhappy lad may make a good man.
An evening red and a morning grey, Is a sign of a fair day.
He who drinks when he is not dry, will be dry when he has no drink.
Pepper is black, yet it hath a good smack.
You cannot get blood out of a stone.
Every one can tame a shrew but he that hath her.
When the child is christened, you may have godfathers enough.
Pride will have a fall.
Unknown, unmissed.
Every one as they like best, as the good man said when he kissed his cow.
A contented mind is a continual feast.
Truth hath a good face, but bad clothes.
No flying without wings.
Well begun is half done.
More haste worse speed.
He that hath thriven may lie till seven.
Even a clown clings to his cloak when it rains.
Fire and water are good servants but bad masters.
A good maxim is never out of season.
Are a man's best wealth.
Exchange is no robbery.
Civil words cost nothing, and go a long way.
A hedge betwee.
Too much liberty spoils all.
Experience is the mistress of fools.
The knowledge of the disease is half the cure.
Saying and doing are two things.
Poor folk are glad of pottage.
Never too old to learn.
Don't run away with more than you can carry.
Where honour ceaseth, there knowledge decreaseth.
Pocket an injury.
A windy March and a rainy April make a beautiful May.
No man can flay a stone.
There would be no great ones if there were no little.
A child may have too much of his mother's blessing.
Sorrow is good for nothing but sin.
Prettiness dies quickly.
Begging is an ill trade on a fast-day.
The devil's children have the devil's luck.
He that riseth betimes hath something in his head.
The nurse's tongue is privileged to talk.
Whether you boil snow or pound it, you will have but water from it.
Evil gotten, evil spent.
He needs must go that the devil drives.
Make hay while the sun shines.
Bought wit is best.
A place for everything, and everything in its place.
Forbidden fruit is sweet.
When it rains, it pours.
Is relished by the wisest men.
All play and no work, Gives Tom a ragged shirt.
Spare when young and spend when old.
It is never too late to mend.
He that cannot abide a bad market deserves not a good one.
Slow fire makes sweet malt.
Thoughts are free.
The Devil Grew Well, the Devil a Monk Was He.
Painted pictures are dead speakers.
Pull gently on a weak rope.
Now or never.
You can't make ropes of sand.
The worth of a thing is best known by the want of it.
Love is no lack.
Promises are too much like pie-crusts, made to be broken.
He is poor indeed that cannot promise nothing.
He goes a-sorrowing, who goes a-borrowing.
Death is deaf and hears no denial.
Fear not the loss of the bell more than the loss of the steeple.
Where music is no harm can be.
Never quit certainty for hope.
Like carrying coals to Newcastle.
Rome wasn't built in a day.
When the cat's away, The mice will play.
A good name is better than riches.
A clear conscience is a sure card.
After clouds comes clear weather.
Rich men's spots are covered with money.
One pair of heels is often worth two pair of hands.
Better ride on an ass that carries me than a horse that throws me.
Vice is nourished by being concealed.
Who spits against the wind spits in his own face.
A hot May makes a fat churchyard.
What's sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.
Trade knows neither friends nor kindred.
Fancy passes beauty.
A single fact is worth a ship-load of argument.
He may well be contented who needs neither borrow nor flatter.
Crosses are ladders that lead to heaven.
When the wind's in the eas.
He would split a hair.
A hungry horse makes a clean manger.
Everything is good in its season.
Far from court, far from care.
Child's pig, but father's bacon.
He that bites on every weed must needs light on poison.
One ill word asketh another.
Oil and water don't mix.
Gentle strokes make the sweetest harmony.
It's no use looking for musk in a dog's kennel.
Sell not the hare's skin before you have caught him.
Much coin much care.
Study to be worthy of your parents.
The tongue's not steel, yet it cuts.
The first blow is half the battle.
Wit is folly, unless a wise man hath the keeping of it.
Nip it in the bud.
Two of a trade seldom agree.
Water bewitched.
Sorrow will pay no debt.
Think of ease, but work on.
A woman's work is never done.
The wearer best knows where the shoe pinches.
Grasp all, lose all.
The foremost dog catches the hare.
If we do not hear reason she will one day make herself be heard.
He that will too soon be his own master, will have a fool for his scholar.
The pot calls the kettle black.
While there's life there's hope.
Truth lies in a well.
Who goes worse shod than the cobbler's wife.
Live not to eat, but eat to live.
Words spoken in an evening the wind carrieth away.
Silence is consent.
Better that the feet slip than the tongue.
Fortune favours the brave.
Borrowed garments never fit well.
To cast oil in the fire is not the way to quench it.
To look for a needle in a pottle of hay.
Never put off till tomorrow what you can do today..
He that will not stoop for a pin, shall never be worth a point.
An apple never falls far from the tree.
A famine in England begins at the horse-manger.
This rule in gardening never forget, To sow dry and set wet.
Gather thistles, expect prickles.
It is better to spare at the brim than the bottom.
Cast not pearls before swine.
You must ask your neighbour if you shall live in peace.
Good October, a good blast, To blow the hog acorn and mast.
He who marries for wealth sells his liberty.
Mocking is catching.
Wolves lose their teeth, but not their memory.
Half a loaf is better than none.
As long lives a merry heart as a sad.
A thin meadow is soon mowed.
A friend is not so soon gotten as lost.
He that sows nothing plants thistles.
"Care not," would have.
Calm weather in Jun.
All lay load on the willing horse.
Forewarned is forearmed.
He that's afraid of wounds must not come nigh a battle.
Idle minds are the devil's workshop.
Better wear a cloak for religion than religion for a cloak.
Bad news travels fast.
When one door shuts another opens.
It's good to be merry and wise.
It chanceth in an hour that comes not in seven years.
Where bees are there is honey.
Fields have eyes, and woods have ears.
Choose your wife on Saturday, and not on a Sunday.
What one man despises, another craves.
Change of pasture makes fat calves.
Feed a cold, starve a fever.
Let them laugh that win.
He that would please all, and himself too, Undertakes what he cannot do.
The pen is mightier than the sword.
If wishes were horses then beggars would ride.
By doing nothing we learn to do ill.
God tempers the wind to the shorn sheep.
Keep me from still water; from that which is rough I can keep myself.
Well may he gape until he be dead.
He is a real friend who assists one in a pinch.
Scratch my back and I'll scratch yours.
Light gains make a heavy purse.
If the grass grow in Janiveer, It grows the worse for't all the year.
Sweet meat must have some sauce.
One man may better steal a horse than another look over the hedge.
After rain comes fair weather.
Bad workmen always complain of their tools.
Ill got, ill spent.
Idle folk have the least leisure.
The more noble the more humble.
Hungry men think the cook lazy.
Whom we love best to them we can say least. ve and a cough cannot be hid.
He who hesitates is lost.
A burnt child dreads the fire.
Follow the river and you'll get to the sea.
Where hearts are tru.
I'll keep no more cats than will catch mice.
Penny wise and pound foolish.
Beans should blow before May doth go.
In the husband wisdom, in the wife gentleness.
Itch and ease can no man please.
If a man once fall, all will tread on him.
Clouds that the sun builds up darken him.
Bend the twig while it is young.
You can't have your cake and eat it too.
When two ride together one must ride behind.
'Gainst the power of gold.
A good word is as soon said as an ill one.
Of idleness comes no goodness.
When good cheer is lacking our friends will be packing.
Temperance is the best physic.
Let not the fiddler play the fife, Nor fifer play the fiddle.
A pennyworth of mirth is worth a pound of sorrow.
He that buys a house ready wrought, Hath many a pin and nail for nought.
To forget wrong is the greatest revenge.
You can't make a horn of a pig's tail.
Evil is wrought by want of thought, As well as want of heart.
Wit ill applied is a dangerous weapon.
There are none so deaf as those who will not hear.
Going to hell in a handbasket.
Too much of one thing is good for nothing.
Neither praise nor dispraise thyself, thine actions serve the turn.
The empty leech sucks sore.
Beauty is no inheritance.
You may know by a penny how a shilling spends.
There is one good wife in the country, and every man thinks he hath her.
Slow and steady wins the race.
He that gropes in the dark finds that he would not.
The law is not the same at morning and night.
Fair and softly as lawyers go to heaven.
Like master like man.
Set trees poor, and they will grow rich; set them rich, and they will grow poor.
Beyond the sheet.
One sheep follows another.
When the wind's in the nort.
Beware of Greeks bearing gifts.
Being born in a stable does not make a man a horse.
To everything there is a season; and a time to every purpose under heaven.
A new broom sweeps clean.
A man cannot live by the air.
Let every tub stand on its own bottom.
If wilful will to water, wilful must be drowned.
'Tis the clerk makes the justice.
Frugality is an estate.
The master's eye does more work than his hands.
A good winter brings a good summer.
You may be a wise man though you cannot make a watch.
Every dog has his day.
In a thousand pounds of law there's not an ounce of love.
Foul hands befoul all they touch.
Forbearance is no acquittance.
Live and let live.
Adversity makes a man wise, not rich.
Necessity is the mother of invention.
The thing you can't help, And the thing that you can.
Every dog has its day.
Beggars must not be choosers.
Necessity knows no law.
I wept when I was born, and every day shows why.
A little house well fill'd, A little land well till'd, And a little wife well will'd.
Catch a bird by putting salt on its tail.
He that hath a head of wax must not walk in the sun.
Don't change horses in midstream.
There are many ways of killing a dog beside hanging him.
Utility is preferable to grandeur.
When the going gets tough, the tough get going.
He that shows his purse longs to be rid of it.
Hasty climbers have sudden falls.
Such as the tree is, such is the fruit.
Little pitchers have long ears.
Keep your tongue within your teeth.
Pay him in his own coin.
Giving to the poo.
Sets corn in tune.
To-day me, to-morrow thee.
Woe to the house where there is no chiding.
A man must sell his ware at the rate of the market.
What is a pound of butter amongst a kennel of hounds.
Two's company and three's none.
A man must plough with such oxen as he hath.
But if the hen moult before the cock, We shall have weather hard as a block.
Love asks faith, and faith asks firmness.
Need makes the old wife trot.
Familiarity breeds contempt.
When fortune smiles take the advantage.
If it's not one thing, it's another.
It's good to have company in trouble.
A fat sorrow is better than a lean one.
Three may keep counsel, if two be away.
Better are small fish than an empty dish.
Stars are not seen during sunshine.
Out of debt, out of danger.
After a famine in the stall, Comes a famine in the hall.
Strike while the iron is ho.
Jack-in-office is a great man.
Life is full of hazards, which experience neither bought nor taught will always enable us to foresee.
Better be a beggar than a fool.
Pardon all men, but never thyself.
Misfortunes seldom come alone.
Birds of prey do not sing.
When the wind's in the sout.
No man is his craft's master the first day.
Possession is nine points of the law, and they say there are but ten.
Bear with evil and expect good.
Little things please little minds.
Every man pays his price.
It's in the rain's mouth.
Forsake not the market for the toll.
One man may lead a horse to water, but fifty cannot make him drink.
Good measure is a merry mean.
Prettiness makes no pottage.
You may as well bid me lade the sea with a nutshell.
Over boots, over shoes.
No one knows where the shoe pinches so well as him who wears it.
Hedges have eyes, and walls have ears.
Never refuse a good offer.
Hunger makes hard bones sweet beans.
He who hath most peas may put most in the pot.
Be captain of your own ship.
A noble housekeeper needs no doors.
Time heals all wounds.
He that doth not lend doth lose his friend.
Be it better or be it worse, Be ruled by him who bears the purse.
A woman conceals what she knows not.
A good surgeon must have an eagle's eye, a lion's heart, and a lady's hand.
When old age is evil, youth can learn no good.
He tied a knot with his tongue he couldn't undo with his teeth.
Great boast, small roast.
A doctor and a clown know more than a doctor alone.
Cowardice is afraid to be known or seen.
You can't teach an old dog new tricks.
Let the best dog leap the stile first.
Who more busy than they that have least to do.
All's well that ends well.
What a man sows, that shall he also reap.
Don't count your chickens before they hatch.
The mill cannot grind with the water that is past.
Youth and white paper take any impression.
Sloth is the mother of poverty.
A man cannot both wive and thrive in a year.
Confine your tongue, lest it confine you.
Do not buy a pig in a poke.
Revenge is sweet.
Climb not too high, lest the fall be the greater.
Marriage halves our griefs, and doubles our joys.
Hope is a good breakfast, but a bad supper.
Put up or shut up.
Valour can do little without discretion.
He that sings on Friday shall weep on Sunday.
The cat is hungry when a crust contents her.
The thief's sorry because he is caught, not because he is the thief.
Everything is the worse for wearing.
One scabbed sheep infects the whole flock.
Prevention is better than cure.
Turnabout is fair play.
Trust not still water nor a silent man.
When sorrow is asleep, wake it not.
He that stumbles twice over the same stone, deserves to break his shins.
Every bird must hatch her own egg.
Nothing came out of the sack but what was in it.
Learning makes a man fit company for himself.
One may sooner fall than rise.
One woodcock does not make a winter.
Wishers and woulders are never good householders.
Give the devil his due.
He that is warm thinks all are so.
Use the means, and God will give the blessing.
Fools always come short of their reckoning.
Catch not at the shadow and lose the substance.
No joy without annoy.
Words are for women, actions for men.
To err is human; to forgive divine.
If you want a thing done, do it yourself.
He who gets four pounds and spends five has no need of a purse.
Every one's faults are not written on their foreheads.
Nothing comes out of the sack but what was in it.
My son is my son till he marries a wife, But my daughter's my daughter all the days of her life.
Man proposes, God disposes.
'Tis not lost that comes at last.
If at first you don't succeed, try, try again.
Fair feathers make fair fowls.
It is the last straw that breaks the camel's back.
Constant dropping wears the stone.
If youth knew what age would crave.
'Tis sooner said than done.
A good horse cannot be of a bad colour.
But soft upon soft makes none at all.
Upon St. David's day, Put oats and barley in the clay.
Hindsight is 20-20.
Fools make feasts, and wise men eat them.
"Say well," and "do well," end with one letter.
First deserve and then desire.
I have a bone in my arm.
Beggars on horseback will ride to the devil.
One beats the bush and another catcheth the bird.
Good servants make good masters.
There's many a true word spoken in jest.
Trash and trumpery is the highway to beggary.
Lazy folk take the most pains.
Be bail and pay for it.
As like as two peas.
Every man is a pilot in a calm sea.
It's ill healing an old sore.
Listeners never hear good of themselves.
Let not the cobbler go beyond his last.
A good recorder sets all in order.
Every man hath his faults.
Wedlock is a padlock.
A chain is only a strong as its weakest link.
Sweep before your own door.
Brag's a good dog, but Holdfast is a better.
It never goes well when the hen crows.
A drowning man will catch at a straw.
If you cannot bite, never show your teeth.
Hot love is soon cold.
He that hath shipped the devil must make the best of him.
It's not over 'till it's over.
No lock will hol.
Give him an inch, and he'll take an ell.
He must needs swim that's held up by the chin.
If you want a thing done, go; if not, send.
Tread on a worm and it will turn.
He who maketh others wretched is himself a wretch, whether prince or peasant.
Get thy spindle and thy distaff ready, and God will send thee flax.
Wranglers never want words.
Better be ill spoken of by one before all, than by all before one.
You should never touch your eye but with your elbow.
Let bygones be bygones.
Laws catch flies, but let hornets go free.
Great oaks from little acorns grow.
He that is of a merry heart hath a continual feast.
Where the wind is on Candlemas Da.
Meat is much, but manners is more.
There is no accounting for tastes.
Look before you leap.
A beggar can never be bankrupt.
Green Christmas, white Easter.
Courts have no almanacks.
Children suck the mother when they are young, and the father when they are old.
Self praise is no recommendation.
To him that wills ways are not wanting.
Short and sweet like a donkey's gallop.
Honesty is the best policy.
Monday for wealth, Tuesday for health, Wednesday the best day of all; Thursday for crosses, Friday for losses, Saturday no luck at all.
Make the best of a bad bargain.
A man may buy gold too dear.
People who live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones.
Bachelors grin, but married men laugh till their hearts ache.
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
Covetousness brings nothing home.
Cry you mercy, who killed my cat.
Man is the head, but woman turns it.
Help yourself and your friends will like you.
He's a good friend that speaks well of us behind our backs.
Don't bite off more than you can chew.
Much meat, much maladies.
'Tis a blot on his escutcheon.
One half of the world knows not how the other half lives.
Beware of "Had I wist..
An ill marriage is a spring of ill fortune.
Every man must eat a peck of ashes before he dies.
Seek till you find, and you'll lose no labour.
He that will steal a pin will steal a better thing.
Who thinks to live must live to think, Else mind and body lose their link.
They that cannot do as they will, must do as they can.
Little goods, little care.
Small things affect light minds.
Between two stools he comes to the ground.
A good wife and healt.
Venture a small fish to catch a great one.
One cannot be in two places at once.
Take time when time is, for time will away.
Use is second nature.
Long looked for comes at last.
They that are bound must obey.
Fast bind, fast find.
He that travels far knows much.
An ounce of mother-wit is worth a pound of clergy.
One must sometimes hold a candle to the devil.
Impudence is not courage.
Call me cousin; but cozen me not.
A life spent worthily should be measured by deeds--not years.
Every couple is not a pair.
There's no great banquet but some fare ill.
The thorn comes forth with his point forwards.
Like a treatise on light and colours by a blind man.
A Man's home is his castle.
All are not thieves that dogs bark at.
In a calm sea every man is a pilot.
Of nothing comes nothing.
Man doth what he can, and God what He will.
Make a virtue of necessity.
Grass grows not upon the highway.
Keep thy shop, and thy shop will keep thee.
Seldom seen, soon forgotten.
A good lawyer, an evil neighbour.
A cherry year, a merry year.
The crow thinks her own bird fairest.
Stolen kisses are sweet.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
Hasty men never lack woe.
Content is the true philosopher's stone.
Throw a sprat to catch a whale.
All for one and one for all.
Craft bringeth nothing home.
Happy go lucky.
They love dancing well that dance among thorns.
Any flat can talk of change of weather.
Lose nothing for asking.
Sufficient for the day is the evil thereof.
In the old of the moon, A cloudy morning bodes a fair afternoon.
Desert and reward seldom keep company.
That brings in penny savoury.
On the sea sail; on the land settle.
Cleanliness is next to godliness.
Caught between a rock and a hard place.
A scalded cat fears cold water.
'Tis folly to dig for lead with a silver shovel.
A cat has nine lives, yet care will kill a cat.
Fish are not to be caught by a birdcall.
Laughter is the best medicine.
Out of sight out of mind.
War is death's feast.
Every cross has its inscription.
A rotten apple injures its companions.
Better pay the butcher than the doctor.
Its better to give than to receive.
Cruelty is a devil's delight.
A full purse maketh the mouth to speak.
Is always at home as if she were lame, And the maid that is honest her chiefest deligh.
Every one puts his fault on the times.
Crosses are ladders for getting to heaven.
Idleness is the key of beggary.
One eye-witness is better than ten hearsays.
Brevity is the soul of wit.
Better be half hanged than ill wed.
There's no fast upon his even.
When April blows his horn, It's both good for hay and corn.
Talk of the devil and his imp appears.
A bad workman quarrels with his tools.
Foolish pity spoils a city.
He goes not out of his way that goes to a good inn.
If you would enjoy the fruit, pluck not the flower.
They are as mute as fishes.
Prosperity gains friends, adversity tries them.
When you ride a young colt see your saddle be well girt.
Happy is he who hath sown his wild oats betimes.
Let the weakest go to the wall.
Fault-finders should be fault-menders.
A dark man's a jewel in a fair woman's eye.
Gold goes in at any gate, except Heaven's.
When you are at Rome, do as Rome does.
If you wish a thing done, go; if not, send.
A penny in your pocket is a good companion.
Dry bread at home is better than roast beef abroad.
Marry above your match and you get a master.
If the wind be still.
Keeps friendship green.
Sure bind, sure find.
Damned if you do, damned if you don't.
A fool demands much, but he's a greater that gives it.
The brain that sows not corn, plants thistles.
If Christmas Day on a Monday be, A great winter that year you will see.
Early sow, early mow.
After Lammas corn ripens as much by night as by day.
Take away fuel, take away flame.
You can't make omelettes without breaking eggs.
The tide will fetch away what the ebb brings.
Wrinkled purses make wrinkled faces.
Covet nothing over much.
It's a bad sack will abide no clouting.
Idle folk take the most pains.
Waste not, want not.
He giveth one knock on the hoop, and another on the barrel.
Good counsel never comes too late.
The higher the standing the lower the fall.
If God had meant us to fly he'd have given us wings.
Curiosity killed the cat.
Manners often make fortunes.
A man may dig his grave with his teeth.
Pains are the wages of ill-pleasures.
It would both get and save.
Wise men learn by others' harms, fools by their own.
You cannot make a purse of a sow's ear.
Under water famine, under snow bread.
Procrastination is the thief of time.
The best horse needs breaking, and the best child needs teaching.
What is a workman without his tools.
All is fish that comes to his net.
Don't bite the hand that feeds you.
Better one eye than quite blind.
They that will not work in heat, must hunger in frost.
Rich country, bad road.
He that leaves certainty and sticks to chance, When fools pipe he may dance.
No cut like unkindness.
He that's down, down with him.
The devil can quote Scripture to suit his purpose.
A hog in armour is still but a hog.
Lose an hour in the morning, and you'll be all day hunting for it.
The chickens have come home to roost.
Marriages are made in heaven.
He would starve in a cook-shop.
If the first of July, it be rainy weather, 'Twill rain more or less for four weeks together.
Fair and softly go far in a day.
He that grasps at too much, holds fast nothing.
Don't wake a sleeping dog.
A great dowry is a bed full of troubles.
Peril proves who dearly loves.
Laws were made for rogues.
Good words fill not a sack.
He that runs fast will not run long.
Time is the rider that breaks youth.
Mettle is dangerous in a blind horse.
They that have no other meat, Bread and butter are glad to eat.
You may pay too dear for your whistle.
Good harvests make men prodigal, bad ones provident.
Thou art a bitter bird, said the raven to the starling.
It is no small conquest to overcome yourself.
As good sit still as rise up and fall.
It is easier to pull down than to build.
Pleasing ware is half sold.
A man may bear till his back breaks.
He that by the plough would thrive, Himself must either hold or drive.
It's a wicked thing to make a dearth one's garner.
Be slow to promise, but quick to perform.
No mill, no meal.
The ladle cools the pot.
None but fools and fiddlers sing at their meat.
Honey catches more flies than vinegar.
When in Rome, (do as the Romans do..
Who preacheth war is the devil's chaplain.
Land was never lost for want of an heir.
Little bodies have large souls.
Have not the cloak to make when it begins to rain.
Save me from my friends.
Proportion your expenses to what you have, not to what you expect.
Have but few friends, though many acquaintances.
What is worse than ill-luck.
He that will eat the kernel, must crack the nut.
The tongue breaketh bone, Though itself have none.
If Janiveer calends be summerly ga.
He can ill pipe that wants his upper lip.
If you must have an evil, choose a little one.
A full purse never lacketh friends.
A watched pot never boils.
Take care of the pence, and the pounds will take care of themselves.
The great Homer himself sometimes nods.
Many things grow in the garden that were never planted there.
Whatever you do, whatever you say, Tell your doctor and lawyer the truth alway.
Forgive and forget.
If it ain't broke, don't fix it.
None is so wise but the fool overtakes him sometimes.
To know the disease is half the cure.
It's poor sport that is not worth the candle.
Standing pools gather filth.
A stitch in time saves nine.
As well be hung for a sheep as a lamb.
The gown is hers who wears it, and the world is his who enjoys it.
The greatest barkers are not always the sorest biters.
Hunger costs little; daintiness much.
He that lives upon his wits, breaks for want of stock.
Be not the first by whom the new is tried, Be not the last to cast the old aside.
Fair and foolish, black and proud, Long and lazy, little and loud.
By wisdom peace, by peace plenty.
Least said is soonest mended.
Beauty is but skin deep.
Jest not at another's infirmities.
Who never climbed, never fell.
Words are but wind, But blows unkind.
Nothing is surer than death.
'Tis an ill guest that never drinks to his host.
Kill two birds with one stone.
All's fair in love and war.
Old habits die hard.
The charitable give out at the door, and God puts in at the window.
Patch and sit long, build and soon flit.
Punctuality begets confidence.
Children and chickens must be always picking.
He loseth nothing who keeps God for his friend.
It is the thrift of a spendthrift which ruins him most effectually.
Praise a fair day at night.
A poor man's table is soon spread.
Remove an old tree and it will wither to death.
Opportunity makes the thief.
Do what thou ought, let come what may.
To split knotty timber use smooth wedges.
Trust not a horse's heel, nor a dog's tooth.
It is good keeping his clothes who is going to swim.
A crooked tree will have a crooked shadow.
Small rain lays great dust.
A good name keeps its lustre in the dark.
When the tree is down, every one runs with his hatchet.
Misunderstanding brings lies to town.
Children and fools have merry lives.
Do not spur a free horse.
If the partridge had the woodcock's thigh, It would be the best bird that ever did fly.
None knows the weight of another's burden.
It takes two to tango.
One God, no more; but friends good store.
Any fool can bet.
Friday's sail, sure to fail.
Fish, or cut bait.
Sir John Barleycorn is the strongest knight.
Speculation completes what extravagance began.
If you play with a fool at home, he'll play with you in the market.
The bigger thet are the harder they fall.
Doing nothing is the hardest work.
Sweet discourse makes short days and nights.
Into every life a little rain must fall.
Judge not a ship as she lies on the stocks.
Old young, and old long.
He who laughs last, laughs best. (or 'longest'.
Plenty as blackberries.
'Tis an ill dog that deserves not a bone.
Where every hand fleeceth, the sheep go naked.
A tree is known by its fruit, and not by its leaves.
Words are like weights, gravity gives them effect.
Laugh, and the world laughs with you; (cry, and you cry alone..
Enough and to spare is too much.
If fools went not to market, bad ware would not be sold.
The mother's breath is always sweet.
Who in Janiveer sows oats, gets gold and groats.
Who so blind as he that will not see.
On a dark night an owl would be glad of a lantern.
No rest for the wicked.
A little mischief is too much.
He knows on which side his bread is buttered.
As poor as Job.
Take away my good name, and take away my life.
Money doesn't grow on trees.
Muffled cats are bad mousers.
Claw me, and I will claw you.
Life lies not in living, but in liking.
A young man idle, an old man needy.
The topmost branch is not the safest perch.
Who has not a good tongue, ought to have good hands.
You cannot see wood for trees.
'Tis a good horse that never stumbles, and a good wife that never grumbles.
The greatest crabs are not always the best meat.
The grass is always greener (on the other side of the fence).
Drink water like an ox, wine like a king of Spain.
Law makers should not be law breakers.
Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
'Tis money makes the mare to go.
When the steed is stolen the stable door shall be shut. ep by step the ladder is climbed.
The best lie is the worst.
Many drops make a shower.
You would make me believe the moon is made of green cheese.
They who have money are troubled about it, And they who have none are troubled without it.
Look to the main chance.
He that goes far from home for a wife, either intends to cheat or will be cheated.
'Tis not in mortals to command success, But we'll do more, Sempronius, we'll deserve it.
Bring forth May flowers.
There needs a long time to know the world's pulse.
A ragged colt may make a good horse.
A little good is soon spent.
Eat at pleasure, Drink by measure.
Saving is getting.
Remove an old tree and it will wither.
Men hold the reins, but the women tell them which way to drive.
He is wise enough that can keep himself warm in winter.
Fair fall truth and daylight.
Don't quarrel with the beggar for his bone.
Fools tie knots and wise men loose them.
Dainty dogs may have to eat dirty puddings.
Though the fox runs the chicken hath wings.
Don't rock the boat.
Better be envied than pitied.
Believe well and have well.
All the keys hang not at one man's girdle.
The first dish pleaseth all.
The world is his who knows how to wait for it.
An idle brain is the devil's workshop.
Hard upon hard makes a bad stone wall.
Flowers are the pledge of fruit.
The persuasion of the fortunate sways the doubtful.
A green wound is soon healed.
Wit may be bought too dear.
On Valentine's day will a good goose lay, If she be a good goose, her dame well to pay, She will lay two eggs before Valentine's day.
Mouth civility costs little but is worth less.
It's a bad dog that deserves not a crust.
'Tis too late, to spare when the bottom is bare.
Zeal without knowledge is the sister of folly.
Gentility without ability is worse than plain beggary.
The nearer the bone the sweeter the meat.
Every light has its shadow.
He that waits on another man's trencher, makes many a late dinner.
Deeds are fruits, words are but leaves.
A black plum is as sweet as a white.
He that hath no head, needs no hat.
Money makes money.